. , it's an honor to be here tonight to speak out for women across America who rely on  for their health and well-being. I want to emphasize the world ``health'' because at it's heart that's what this debate is all about.There has been a great deal of discussion about religion in this debate, but we want to use tonight to remind policymakers and Americans everywhere what's really at stake when we talk about , and that's the health and well-being of millions of women and their families.Ninety-nine percent of sexually active women have used , including 98 percent of sexually active Catholic women. More than half of women between the ages of 18 and 34 have struggled to afford . It's also important to recognize 28 States already require  coverage, and 57 percent of Catholic voters support the new policy requiring  coverage.But today we want to move beyond statistics and tell human stories, the stories of women all across America who rely on  for a variety of vital health needs. Tonight I just want to share one of many stories I have received from women in my district. The story I want to share is from a young woman in my district in Chicago named Annalisa. Annalisa was so moved by the story of the young woman from Georgetown who was denied  to treat her ovarian cyst, she wrote me this letter:I would like to applaud your decision to walk out of the one-sided talk about birth control coverage. I have a similar story to that of the rejected witness' friend. I had my right ovary removed shortly after I turned 18 due to a large cyst that not only threatened my fertility, but I was told if it grew any larger it could burst and also threaten my life. My left ovary also had multiple smaller cysts, but they were able to be removed while leaving the ovary intact. My doctor said I was one of the youngest with such a problem, and the cyst was so large it was sent to be researched. Before I was even sexually active I was prescribed birth control pills to preserve my remaining ovary and to take my fertility beyond the age of 18. It saddens me to no end that some  don't understand the many uses and lifesaving abilities of birth control. I hope to be a mother someday, a darned good one, and I thank you for standing up for women like me.Well, I want to thank Annalisa for her bravery and sharing her story with me and allowing me to share it tonight. But Annalisa is not alone. Her story is the story of thousands of women around the country whose health relies on . We will hear more stories like Annalisa's tonight.But I hope that the next time we engage in a debate about restricting access to , we remember Annalisa and women like her, and we remember that for thousands of women,  is not a question of religion but a question of life and death.In addition to non- health benefits, the  benefits of birth control cannot be understated. The simple fact is millions of women use birth control to delay or avoid pregnancy.According to the American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists:A full array of family planning services is vital for women's health, especially for the two-thirds of American women of reproductive age who wish to avoid or postpone pregnancy.Nearly half of all pregnancies in the U.S. are unintended, and unintended pregnancies can have serious health consequences for women. For example, for some women with serious medical conditions such as heart disease, diabetes, and high blood pressure, a pregnancy could be life threatening.Children born from unintended pregnancies are also at greater risk of poor birth outcomes such as congenital defects, low birth weight, and prematurity. According to the National Commission to Prevent Infant Mortality, 10 percent of infant deaths could be prevented if all pregnancies were planned.I want to share another story of a young woman named Katy from my home State of Illinois. Katy, like millions of women across the country, currently relies on  because she is pursuing her career and wants to do so without getting pregnant. Here's what Katy wrote:Birth control is important to me personally because I am a 23-year-old medical student who would be distraught if I became pregnant. Don't get me wrong, I love children and dream of the day that I can become a mother. That time isn't when I have $81,000 in medical school debt after just 2 years of medical school. That time isn't when I study for most hours of the day. That time isn't when I have no job, and my only source of `income' is the overpayment checks I receive for my financial aid. Birth control is important to me because I can't be a mother right now but want to have the option in the future. Birth control gives me the option to retain a somewhat normal intimate life with my partner of 8 years while still protecting my dreams of a future in medicine. That future would be extremely hard to obtain with an infant to care for. has transformed our society by allowing women like Katy to take their own health and their own future into their own hands. Women have the power to decide when and how many children to have, which has allowed them to pursue successful careers and enter the workforce like never before.But in the end, this is not about work versus home life. This is about empowering women to decide for themselves. Birth control lets women choose their own life paths, and that's why it is vital that we protect it.I also want to remind opponents of  coverage that  prevents abortion. Nearly half--49 percent--of pregnancies in the U.S. are unintended, and 42 percent of unintended pregnancies end in abortion. Although abortion and  are one degree removed, it is easy to see that increased use of  will reduce unintended pregnancies and, therefore, reduce abortion rates.The data shore this up as well. According to a study published in the American Journal of Public Health, the recent decline in pregnancy rates amongst American teens ``appears to be following the patterns observed in other developed countries, where improved  use has been the primary determinant of declining rates.''Teen pregnancy is at a 30-year low, due in large part to increased  use. Another recent study found that California's family-planning program averted nearly 300,000 unintended pregnancies, 100,000 abortions and 38,000 miscarriages.Finally, a Guttmacher Institute study of nationwide family planning programs found similar reports. According to Guttmacher:Publicly funded contraceptive services and supplies help women in the U.S. avoid nearly 2 million unintended pregnancies each year. In the absence of such services--from family planning centers and from doctors serving Medicaid patients, estimated U.S. levels of unintended pregnancy, abortion and unintended birth would be nearly two-thirds higher among women overall, and nearly twice as high among poor women.There can be no denying that  prevents abortion. This means abortion opponents should be bolstering  programs, not banning them.We should be able to find common ground on the issue of --a basic health service already utilized by the vast majority of American women.I hope we can work together to expand important investments in family planning such as title X and Medicaid.And I hope we can move forward with the important new rule requiring coverage of , to empower women, improve health, save lives, and reduce abortions.. , I yield back the balance of my time.Madam , today American women win. Congress has finally done something right. No more copays for . No more copays for mammograms. No more copays for well-women visits. No more copays for diabetes screening, DV counseling, HPV DNA testing, or HIV screening.So what does that mean to women in America?Women in America today are saving money. For  alone, they'll save $400 to $600 a year. For all women in this country, it's a billion dollars worth of savings because the Affordable Care Act was passed by Congress and signed by the President of the United States.Yes, President Obama does care. And yes, American women win.. , 25 years ago I was diagnosed with ovarian cancer. I was lucky, had excellent doctors who detected the cancer by chance in Stage 1. I am alive today by the grace of God and biomedical research. Many women today are not so lucky.Ten women in the U.S. are diagnosed with a gynecological cancer every hour, and yet we know that using  for a year reduces the risk of ovarian cancer by 10 to 12 percent, using it for 5 years reduces that risk by roughly 50 percent. Twenty-six thousand women will die from these terrible cancers each and every year. This is just one of the ways that access to  is beneficial to women's health.Improved access to birth control is directly linked to declines in maternal and infant mortality and helps to reduce unintended pregnancies. It significantly reduces a woman's risk of endometrial cancer. That is why, after an impartial and comprehensive review of the scientific data, the Institute of Medicine made the decision to include  among covered preventive services under the Affordable Care Act because  is very much part of women's health. It can help prevent ovarian cancer. It can save women's lives.. President, at 11 a.m. tomorrow the Senate will proceed to vote in relation to the Blunt amendment No. 1520 on  and health care. Tomorrow we will continue to work on a path forward on the Transportation bill, as I have outlined previously.. President, we have had a long discussion today on the amendment to the surface transportation bill offered by my colleague and friend from Missouri, Senator Blunt. I think the discussion has shown pretty clearly that the amendment by the Senator from Missouri is both way beyond the scope of what most  envisioned and is extreme. It is way beyond the scope because it would cause the deprival of certain types of health care to perhaps millions of Americans in areas that go way beyond .All an employer would have to do is say they have a moral objection to providing vaccinations and they would not have to provide health care. Maybe the employees could sue or go to court for 10 years and figure this out, but that is not what we want. So it would be a giant step backward in terms of health care.It is also a giant step backward in terms of depriving millions of American women of . In a sense, this is a ban on , at least for the millions of American women whose employers would say they do not want to provide . Some might be motivated by religious beliefs, some might be motivated by simply saving money, and we would never know except after long and costly litigation. Again, that would deprive the employee of  for a very long time.I think if  listened in on this debate, they would say this was a debate occurring not in 2012 but maybe in 1912 or even 1812 because issues such as a woman's right to  without the employer making a determination have long been decided by this country. We have seen the statistics. The overwhelming majority of Americans of every faith believe  should be available.So the debate has been pretty clear. I think the other side is making a huge mistake--certainly substantively, and in my judgment politically--so much so that today the leading Presidential candidate on the Republican side, when asked whether he supported the Blunt amendment said, no; he did not think Congress should be getting involved in . . Romney said we should not be doing this amendment, and he did not support it, unequivocally and clearly.A few hours later, of course, his folks walked that back, probably because of political pressure. He is facing Republican primaries where this issue is debated seriously, even if the rest of America does not believe that it should be debated. But what it shows is even when a leading candidate of the other side who is seeking votes from the hard right has doubts about whether this is a good idea, those doubts are real.The other side should make a retreat. Our Republican colleagues should not make the same mistake they made on the payroll tax deduction by appealing to an extreme group. They should back off this amendment. They should vote with us, and we should move on and debate the highway bill and put millions of Americans to work and update our infrastructure.. , I wish the majority cared as much about creating jobs as they do about undermining women's reproductive rights. is basic preventive women's health care. Simple as that. It should be affordable and widely available. Women should have access to it without a copay, no matter where they work.Birth control saves lives. Women should give it up just as soon as men forfeit coverage for viagra. is guided by sound science and best health care practices. The majority on the other hand is motivated by divisive and inflexible ideology.The Republicans should take their own advice. They say they hate big government. Well, I can't think of any government bigger and more intrusive than the one that tells women how to conduct their personal lives and what to do with their bodies.. President, I wonder if the official reporter could show the big smile on my face. Can my colleagues imagine how ridiculous my friend the Republican leader's statement is. Listen to what he said. We are doing cyber security. We have talked about the dangers of cyber security if we don't do something about it. He is now telling me he wants a vote to repeal all the stuff I just talked about on the cyber security bill? That is very difficult to comprehend. I think we should understand that I don't think a woman getting  has a thing to do with shutting down the power grids in America or the financial services in America or our water systems or our sewer systems. That is what cyber security is all about, not whether a woman can have  or whether she can have a wellness check to find out if she has cancer from not having had a mammogram.. President, amendment No. 438 establishes a deficit-neutral reserve fund to protect women's access to basic health care, including family planning and birth control. It ensures that employers cannot deny coverage for contraceptives.We have seen that improving access to preventive care, including , is good health policy, and as a result it means healthier women, healthier children, and healthier families.I urge my colleagues to support this amendment.. , some decisions are just too important to be based on fear of political repercussions. That is why it is gratifying that President Obama heeded the advice of the Institute of Medicine and concluded that given its importance to women's health,  should be covered by health insurance as a free, preventative service for all American women.To accommodate religious institutions, the administration appropriately exempted places of worship from requirements to cover contraceptives in their health plans. The rule strikes a delicate balance respecting the rights of both religions ideologically opposed to birth control and American women.Let me be clear: No one will be required to use contraceptives. The rule simply allows women to exercise their own conscience when it comes to their health, and the vast majority of American women already do.It would be a grave mistake to make it more difficult to access medically recommended services for the 99 percent of all women who have used  in their lifetime.The administration was absolutely right to stand up for women's health by protecting access to .I yield to Congresswoman Slaughter from New York.. , when it comes to religious exemptions, a balance must be struck. The rights of religious followers must be protected while also respecting the beliefs of others who may be impacted by a religious exemption.Take, for example, a Catholic university where Jews, Hindus, Muslims, and non-religious followers work. Should these individuals be denied access to  even though their faiths do not oppose it?If we expand the religious exemption too far and allow religiously affiliated institutions to deny  to their employees regardless of their religious beliefs, we begin to see the beliefs and rights of those who support and require  infringed upon.As policymakers, we have to stand up for the rights of all of our constituents regardless of their faiths. This means making policies that walk the line between protecting the rights of primarily religious institutions while also protecting the rights of individuals employed by religiously affiliated institutions. The administration's exemption strikes that balance.I yield to the gentlewoman from California.Madam President, I rise today to discuss the amendment to the surface transportation bill offered by my friend and colleague from Missouri, Senator Blunt.For reasons beyond me, the other side has demanded a vote on birth control. It seems they wish to debate whether we should take away access to  for millions of women.Cooler heads are not prevailing on the other side of the aisle these days. There are some wiser voices on their side who do seem to regret they are having this debate, but they are the minority.Just this morning, the senior Senator from Alaska is quoted in the New York Times expressing exacerbation. Of her party's push to roll back access to , she says:I don't know where we are going with this issue.I sympathize with the frustration shown by my friend from Alaska. There is no good answer about where the other side is going with this issue--except, perhaps, back to the 19th century.This whole debate is an anachronism. Our country progressed beyond the issue of whether to allow birth control a long time ago. Yet here we are in 2012 and some in the Republican Party suddenly want to turn back the clock and take away  from millions of women.Make no mistake, that is what this debate is about, as backward as it is. I keep hearing this measure being referred to as the Blunt amendment, named after its sponsor, my friend, the Senator from Missouri. We should, instead, call it for what it will be: an attempt to take away for millions of women birth control. If this amendment passes, it would ban  coverage for any woman in America whose boss has a personal objection to it. The measure would force women to surrender control of their own health decisions to their bosses. That concept is not merely quaint or old-fashioned, it is dangerous, and it is wrong.According to the Department of Health and Human Services, some 20 million American women could be cut off from health services by this proposal. The other side does not want the debate framed in those terms because they know it makes them look silly. So instead, they are spinning.In the last week, there have been op-eds penned by the minority leader, the junior Senator from Massachusetts, and the junior Senator from Missouri, all seeking to frame this as about protecting religious liberty.The debate may have been about religious liberty for a time, but now some on the other side have overplayed their hand. They may have started seeking protections for religious-affiliated employers, but now they sense a ripe time to make headway on a far-right social agenda.The debate reminds me of a famous quote that our former colleague Dale Bumpers used to invoke. It was a quote by H.L. Mencken, who said:When someone says it's not about the money, it's usually about the money.Well, when the other side tries so hard to claim this is not a debate about , that is how you know this debate is precisely about .The amendment is not about religious liberty. The truth is religious institutions have always been exempt under the law from certain coverage requirements. Under the President's compromise, an even larger set of employers--those with a religious affiliation such as certain hospitals and schools--also will not have to pay for  coverage. It will, instead, be covered by the insurance company. The President's compromise has been widely embraced, including by many of the same church-affiliated organizations that expressed concern originally.The administration is working on a solution for self-insured employers. I am confident they will find a way that works for everyone.The amendment being voted on tomorrow is not responsive to any real concerns about religious freedom. Its reach extends far beyond church organizations that legitimately seek considerations based on conscience. It wants to let any employer in the country decide to cut off services for any reason whatsoever.Under the guise of religious liberty, some on the hard right are trying to accomplish a political goal: banning  more widely. This is a goal the other side has been pursuing for a while now at the State level. At the heart of many of the personhood proposals being advanced in State legislatures is an attempt to cut off women's access to certain forms of .Some Republicans in the Senate now seem to want to nationalize this fringe debate over whether  should be allowed. It is not a political winner. Even the House Republicans seem to have the good sense not to bring up the amendment on the floor of their Chamber. But here the other side is pushing ahead with the ban.It is so far-reaching, it has stirred a wide collection of health organizations to speak out against it. These are groups such as the American Academy of Pediatrics, the American Congress of Obstetricians and Gynecologists, the March of Dimes, and Easter Seals. These are groups with no agenda other than protecting the health of those they serve.In a letter these groups sent earlier this week, they pointed out the wide variety of services that an employer could decline to provide, such as child vaccinations and mammograms.It is true that all these services and more are threatened by this amendment. But are Republicans against child vaccinations and mammograms? I doubt it. So let's admit what this debate is really about and what Republicans want to take away from millions of American women. It is . We should call this debate and this amendment for what it will be for millions of women whose boss may have a personal objection: This is a  ban.I yield the floor.. President, I rise to discuss the continued attacks on the rights of women to control their own reproductive choices.Women should have access to comprehensive reproductive care and should be able to decide for themselves how to use that care.Here is the problem. The politics of women's health care has reached an extreme point, most recently with the decision of the Susan G. Komen Foundation to stop funding for breast cancer screenings at Planned Parenthood.Following the outrage of millions of men and women around the country, the Foundation reversed its course, at least for this year.A year ago, House Republicans passed a budget that would have eliminated the Title X Family Planning Program and defunded Planned Parenthood.Annually, these programs serve almost 8 million Americans nationwide providing primary care, cancer screenings, well baby care, contraceptive services, education, annual exams, STD and HIV testing, and flu vaccines.These programs provide critical health care services to many women who simply cannot afford to go anywhere else.It is ironic to defund these programs because family planning education and access to  can save money. For example, title X supported family planning centers prevented 406,000 abortions and saved taxpayers $3.4 billion in 2008 alone.The same House-passed budget would have also eliminated the Teen Pregnancy Prevention Program. Teen pregnancy costs taxpayers billions of dollars annually.Recently, the Obama administration announced its final policy on  coverage as part of the preventive health services recommended for women. The policy concluded employers are required to provide no-cost  or another option to their employees.The administration included a very narrow exemption to this requirement, and allowed religious organizations, such as churches or synagogues that primarily employ  of their own faith, to opt-out.This narrow religious exemption, which does not include hospitals, universities, or other organizations with religious affiliations, was the right decision. It ensures that millions of women of all faiths, including nurses, janitors, doctors, and college instructors, will access to good health care, including , if they want it.A nurse seeking employment should not have to choose between one employer who provides  coverage and one who doesn't.Access to  is widely supported. Today, two new polls were released that showed the majority of catholic voters support coverage for prescription birth control.Seventy-one percent of American voters, including 77 percent of Catholic women voters, support health plans covering birth control without co-pays.Moreover, 28 States, including California, already require employer-provided health plans to include  coverage if the plan provides prescription drug coverage.In 2004, the California Supreme Court held that Catholic Charities was no different from any other employer and therefore required to provide  coverage for their employees.I agree.Access to  can reduce rates of unintended pregnancy, help with certain health problems, and reduce the risks of some cancers. Expanding the exemption would have caused unacceptable harm to women.The administration should keep this exemption narrow.House Republicans insisted on including a ban on local funding for abortions in the District of Columbia in the fiscal year 2012 appropriations bill.They have introduced and passed numerous bills that would significantly restrict a women's right to choose. This past October, the House passed a bill that would prohibit Federal funds from being used for any health plan that offers abortion coverage.This would mean that any women receiving Federal subsidies to help them afford health insurance would effectively be prohibited from purchasing coverage that included abortion services.Last May, the House passed a bill that falsely claimed to end public funding for abortion. There are already stringent Federal protections that prohibit Federal dollars from being used for abortions; this bill was not about that.Instead this bill was an attempt to reopen a contentious debate and to impose unprecedented limitations on women using their own money for abortion services.Even worse, this bill would have allowed hospitals to refuse to provide abortion care or refer a patient to a hospital that would provide it, even when a woman's life is in critical danger.This attack on women's health must be defeated. All women deserve access to quality comprehensive health care, regardless of their income level or place of employment.There is a balance between respecting America's democratic values and increasing access to important health services for women. In addition to being a health concern, for many women it is an economic concern as well.Better health policies for women help them save on out of pockets costs. When women are healthy, communities are healthy. I will continue to stand for women's health and fight for equal access to care.. President, I yield the floor, and I suggest the absence of a quorum.I thank the gentlelady for yielding.. , I just want to express my support for the administration's ruling that provides women and families across this country, no matter their faith, the opportunity to take control of their own reproductive health and to gain access to contraceptive services.The opposition we are hearing--although very vocal, from very few voices--does not adequately reflect the voices of the millions of women across this country who rely on .. , 99 percent of women in the United States and 98 percent of Catholic women already use birth control; and it's estimated that, on average, women use birth control for 30 years. Polls conducted across the country over the last week also have found that more than half of the United States population believes that employers should provide health care plans that cover  and birth control at no cost.Unfortunately, over the last week, since the administration's ruling, I believe religious leaders have misinterpreted and misled the American  on the rule's implications. The exemption in the ruling actually very carefully protects the rights of churches and church associations. The administration justly limits the exemption of institutions whose main purpose is for spreading religion and employ and serve  of the same faith. Clearly, the opposition doesn't express this. Extending this exemption beyond these churches to other religious institutions would directly undermine the intent of the health care reform law for the more than 640,000 individuals employed, in particular, by Catholic hospitals.And let's be clear: Contrary to what some have said, this ruling has absolutely nothing to do with abortion. In fact, the ruling will save women up to $600 per year and keep their employers from absorbing a 15 to 17 percent increase in health care costs simply not to provide women with contraceptive coverage.Women and families across the country deserve the option to receive comprehensive  coverage if they desire. The rule doesn't prescribe  to women. If a woman chooses to exercise her faith and not use , she's free to do so under this ruling. However, limiting access to  to any subset of the population would be a direct affront to the scientific and medical recommendations of the Institute of Medicine.Catholic institutions are in an untenable position. After all, where is it that we would draw the line? Should those institutions exercise their role as employers rather than their role in their faith tradition? I would argue that of course this is about their role as an employer.What, for example, would the government do if these institutions also believed that they should exempt themselves from paying payroll taxes because they believe that under their faith tradition 's responsibility is to tithe instead? Would we allow them to self-exempt from payroll taxes? I don't think so. and maternal health is all a part of a woman's comprehensive health care, just like breast exams, screenings, and well-woman visits. Fifty percent of pregnancies in this country are unplanned, and it's widely understood that these unplanned pregnancies are not as healthy as planned pregnancies. This can cost taxpayers up to $11 billion a year. And at a time when the other side is slashing budgets and proposing reforms to shift costs to States, this ruling is about as smart as we get for our health care system, for women and families, for babies, and for American taxpayers.Making certain women and families have the opportunity to plan pregnancy is critical for our society. The administration's ruling protects women, families, and babies, eliminates discrimination of one group of women over another, and it's important for us. The ruling respects the religious beliefs and freedoms of all Americans and health care providers while it ensures that women have the full option to pursue .I stand with my colleagues in support of the administration's rule and look forward to working to expand health care coverage and women's health care coverage.At this time, I would like to yield to my colleague from Connecticut, the Honorable Rosa DeLauro, who is a true leader for women's health care, and I appreciate her leadership.My response to my friend is this: I try to be very calm about things in life generally, especially things here on the floor, but I can't remain very calm about this. I have, as do a lot of  I know, 16 grandchildren. They are evenly divided between boys and girls. I want my granddaughters to be treated so that if they want to go get some , have some contraceptive device while in school at New York University or Berkeley--I am bragging that they got into those schools--they should have the ability to do that.I just can't imagine what we are talking about here on the Senate floor. Cyber security is one of the most important--it is the most important issue, as I have already said. If my colleagues want to talk to General Petraeus, he will tell us about what it is, or General Dempsey will tell us what the important issue is. The No. 1 issue today is whether we are going to have bad  attack our country and shut it down. Now we are here being asked if we are going to have a vote, on cyber security, as to when my grandchildren can have .. , today I am reintroducing the Access to Birth Control, ABC, Act in the House with Senator Frank Lautenberg leading the effort in the Senate.Ninety-eight percent of American women use birth control over the course of their lifetime. This bill ensures that any woman who would like birth control and who has a legal prescription or is seeking over-the-counter emergency , will be able to get it in a timely and convenient manner.The ABC Act would make it illegal for a pharmacist to refuse to return a birth control prescription or for a pharmacist to intimidate, threaten or harass customers or intentionally breach or threaten to breach medical confidentiality.By placing the burden of responsibility on the pharmacy, the ABC Act strikes a balance between the rights of individual pharmacists based on their beliefs and the right of women to receive medication. If the request product is not in stock, but the pharmacy stocks other forms of , the bill mandates that the pharmacy help the woman obtain the medication without delay by the method of her preference (order, referral or a transferred prescription).Very simply, this legislation ensures a woman's legal access to birth control.Over the past several years, there have been reports of pharmacists refusing to fill prescriptions for birth control pills.There have been reports in at least twenty-four states across the nation including: Arizona, Massachusetts, Washington and Missouri. These refusals are based on personal or religious beliefs, not on legitimate medical or professional concerns related to quality of patient care. In some cases, pharmacist have kept and refused to transfer a prescription, refused to sell over-the-counter emergency , or given the customer false medical information about the requested birth control. Pharmacists have taken it upon themselves to decide whose prescription they will fill and which over-the-counter medication they will provide.This bill is particularly timely as just last week, the Institute of Medicine, IOM, recommended that family-planning services, including the full range of FDA-approved contraceptive methods, be recognized as a preventive-health service that must be covered by insurance plans without additional costs.This recommendation from the IOM marks an important first step toward near-universal contraceptive coverage in America, but if women are denied the actual contraceptives when they go to their pharmacist, having no-cost contraceptives is rendered meaningless. We must ensure that American women do not face obstacles when seeking doctor prescribed, legal medications.The Access to Birth Control Act, ABC ACT, is an important step in protecting a woman's right to . Birth control and emergency  are part of a women's basic health care and pharmacists should not have the right to interfere.. President, at the beginning of this month--in fact, February 7--I moved to proceed to the surface transportation bill that is before us today--an extremely important bill, a bipartisan bill. This effort has been led by two fine Senators--one quite progressive and the other very conservative--Senators Boxer and Inhofe, the chairman and ranking member of the very important Environment and Public Works Committee. This is a vital job-creating measure. The bill would create and maintain up to 2.8 million jobs.On February 9, 2 days after I moved to this bill, the Senate voted 85 to 11 to invoke cloture on the motion to proceed. The bill has broad bipartisan support. But immediately after the Senate moved to the bill on February 9, Senator Blunt asked unanimous consent that it be in order to offer his amendment on  and women's health. I was stunned. I couldn't believe this. I said, What is going on here? I objected at the time. I didn't see why this surface transportation jobs bill was the appropriate place for an amendment on  and women's health.But the Republican leader and others on the Republican side of the aisle have made it very clear the Senate is not going to be able to move forward on this important surface transportation bill unless we vote on  and women's health. My friend the Republican leader said it on national TV on ``Face the Nation'' with Bob Schieffer. Senator McConnell said, ``The issue will not go away.''So I believe it is vital to get this jobs bill done. What is standing in the way is the Republicans' insistence on having a vote on a measure that would deny women access to health services such as  and even prenatal screenings. So after discussing it with numerous Senators, I decided we should set up a vote on the one amendment, on  and women's health. There has been enough delay on this bill. So we will have a vote on this Blunt amendment on Thursday. After that, we hope to be able to work out an agreement to have votes on a number of nongermane amendments on each side. Maybe we will need to have some side-by-sides, the Republicans may need some side-by-sides on our amendments. That is fine, but let's move forth.Meanwhile, the managers have made tremendous progress on clearing more than 25 agreed-to amendments. I know the managers will want to work on clearing even additional germane amendments. So I believe this process will be the most constructive way to move the bill forward. I hope this will help us be in a position to work through to completing the transportation bill by the end of next week.I ask unanimous consent that it be in order for the Blunt amendment No. 1520 to be called up; that on Thursday, March 1, at a time to be determined by the majority leader, after consultation with the Republican leader, the Senate proceed to vote in relation to the Blunt amendment; further, that no other amendments be in order prior to the vote in relation to the Blunt amendment.. President, I watched many of the statements made by so many of our women Senators who came to the floor in the past hour to talk about this issue of women's preventive health services. I was unable to get to the floor at the time. I want to be here now because, unfortunately, there is a lot of confusion about what the Affordable Care Act does and does not do with respect to women's preventive health services.As chairman of the Health, Education, Labor and Pensions Committee and as someone who is very much involved in crafting this legislation, especially the preventive services part of that legislation, I hope to explain the facts and debunk the myths and the misinformation that has recently arisen on this issue.First, women--nurses, teachers, professors, homemakers, attorneys--everyone from all walks of life, all women in America now have the right to preventive health care services. Beginning this August, the Affordable Care Act guarantees that insured women will have access to expert recommended preventive health care services. These basic services include well-women visits, mammograms, prenatal care, cervical cancer screenings, and .These critical services will be offered without any out-of-pocket costs such as copays or deductibles. It is the latter, the ability of women to have a health insurance plan that covers contraceptives that has led to this recent controversy, this outpouring, this outburst of political accusations.Here let me emphasize  of strong faith and good conscious have very different views when it comes to these matters. I understand that. I have great admiration for the many contributions that religious institutions make to our country. Catholic charities provide vital assistance to low-income Americans. Religious universities teach and prepare thousands of young  to be outstanding citizens and productive members of our society. In fact, I attended law school at Catholic University right up the street. I also attended Catholic elementary schools and Catholic high school.Catholic hospitals are instrumental in providing first-class health care to so many of our fellow citizens. I have spoken many times about the care that Mercy Hospital in Des Moines, a Catholic hospital, gave to my father when he was elderly and in bad health because of black lung disease and he had no money. They provided care for him at no cost. So I have very deep feelings about the generosity and the care that these religious hospitals provide.It is for this reason I would oppose any measure that threatens the fundamental religious liberties of these institutions. I believe, however, that the President properly balanced the essential health care needs of women with the rights of religious institutions. Let me clarify what this rule does, and most importantly does not do since folks, such as Governor Romney, are misleading the American --perhaps intentionally distorting the facts--using the issue for demagoguery.First, churches and other houses of worship are specifically exempt from the requirement that they carry insurance plans that provide .Second, no individual health care provider, neither religious nor secular, will be forced to prescribe . The President and his administration have previously and continue to express strong support for existing conscience protections. Moreover, other religiously affiliated organizations that employ  of different faiths--such as Catholic colleges and hospitals--can qualify for a 1-year transition period as they prepare to comply with the new law.Let me point out, no individual will be forced to buy or use . No individual will be forced to buy or use . Under this policy, women who want  will have access to it through their insurance without having to pay a copay or deductible, but no one will be forced to buy or to use . Let's make that clear.Drugs that cause abortion, such as RU486, the morning-after pill, are not covered by this policy. Let me repeat that. Drugs that cause abortion, such as RU486, the morning-after pill, are not covered by this policy and nothing about this policy changes the President's firm commitment to maintain strict limitations on Federal funding for abortions. No Federal tax dollars are used for elective abortions.Let me quote what Governor Romney said in Colorado just yesterday:Just this last week, this same administration said that in churches and the institutions they run, such as schools, and let's say adoption agencies, hospitals, that they have to provide for their employees, free of charge, contraceptives, morning-after pills--in other words abortive pills and the like at no cost.. Romney said.Think what that does to  in faiths without sharing those views. This is a violation of conscience.. Romney, this does not cover morning-after pills. And the adoption agencies and the hospitals do not have to provide free of charge contraceptives. All they have to do is to make available, through the broad insurance coverage they have, for women who choose to use contraceptive services, that they can get those without any copays or deductibles. But this does not cover the morning-after pill. Yet I keep hearing it.I was working out this morning while watching CNN, and somebody else came on talking about how the Catholic Church is opposed to abortions; they should not be forced to fund abortions. This has nothing to do with that. All it says is, if you have a broad-based insurance policy and you are not a religious institution or a church and you are, let's say a hospital, and you have insurance that covers a broad array of , we have said that insurance must cover a broad variety of preventive services: mammograms, cervical cancer screening, well-women visits--all of that--and --and , a preventive service.. Romney is going around saying these things, but it is not true. It is simply not true. He is either misinformed or he is purposely trying to mislead the American --neither of which is acceptable. As I said, churches and other houses of worship are specifically exempt from the requirement that they carry insurance plans that provide .Second, no individual health care provider, neither religious nor secular, will be forced to prescribe . No individual will be forced to buy or use  against her own conscience. All the rules the President announced ensure that all women, no matter who their employer, have the opportunity to enjoy the same insurance and the same vital preventive services--every woman. In fact, there is nothing radical about such a policy. Fifty percent of Americans currently live in 28 States that require insurance companies to cover . Imagine that.Several of these States--such as Arizona, New York, Oregon, and California--have had this law in effect for years, saying if you have insurance coverage, you have to provide contraceptive services under that broad coverage of insurance, and these four States have identical religious employer exemptions as the rule the President announced.Let me repeat, Arizona, New York, Oregon and California have identical religious employer exemptions, the same as the rule the President announced. I did not hear . Romney going after the Governors of Arizona or of New York or Oregon or California. This has now become a political issue, and it should not be. It should not be.Religious institutions continue to serve the public by providing exemplary health, education, and antipoverty services in these States, and I am hopeful that nothing will change in the rest of the country. Twenty-eight States, half the  who already live in those States that cover the same thing.The health of women in this Nation is far too important to become a sound bite on the evening news, a headline in the morning paper, or political rhetoric--again, to divide us. The President's policy and what we have done does not divide us. In fact, if anything it unifies the country. I do not think anyone thinks we should pass a law banning contraceptives. We did in the old days, you know. There was a Supreme Court case about that. As a matter of fact, I read it in law school when I was at Catholic University Law School: Griswold v. Connecticut, if I am not mistaken.The Supreme Court said, no; the State has no interest, no vital interest in telling women they cannot use contraceptive services and devices. That is an old case. If someone is conscience-bound and they say they don't want to--that is fine. No one is being forced to do anything against their consciences. No one is being forced to do anything we have not already done in this country in 28 States. But now it has become political rhetoric. How else do we explain . Romney's total misinformation? To try to divide us as a country again.It is time to put this aside. It is time to put aside these differences, these divisions, and focus on giving  access to the affordable health care they deserve. That is what the Affordable Care Act does, and we should not let political rhetoric, political gamesmanship, a political campaign again try to tear us apart, try to misinform  to inflame passions that somehow we have gone off on a different path; that we are doing something totally different than what we have done before. We are not. We are not. To include in this the inflammatory rhetoric of abortion and all that it entails is doing a disservice to the women of this country.I hope the truth will get out, that this misinformation will fall by the wayside, and  will see this for the political rhetoric it is, and that we will move forward with a health care system that does provide broad preventive services to every woman in America. That is what this is about.I yield the floor. I suggest the absence of a quorum.. , I'd like to thank Congressman Mike Quigley for working to organize Women's Health Wednesday, and also all of my colleagues of the Congressional Pro Choice Caucus, of which I am also a member, for standing up for women's health every single day.I'm here, once again, to stand against the ongoing War on Women and Women's Health.And let me just say how unfortunate it is that we continue to have to fight for what is and should be a basic health right and necessity for women. I am sure the American  would much rather have us focusing on ways to create jobs, especially for the long-term unemployed.Yet here we are again. Defending women's right to access basic health care services. And yes, that includes .Much of the debate around access to  has centered on the so-called conscience clause. The ability of a religiously affiliated business to withhold access to  care for women based simply on an abstract moral objection.An objection, mind you, that not only ignores the conscience or moral beliefs of the women these businesses employ, but completely disregards the real medical needs of these women.And let me say, as I have before, that as a former devout practicing Catholic I fully understand and respect the Church's doctrine on , even though I disagree with it.But the health care decisions a woman makes should and must be between her and her doctor. And as I have always said, the government has no place inserting itself between the medical decisions a woman makes with her doctor. Period.. , I come to the floor today to recognize and highlight those women who are especially impacted by the attempts of our colleagues on the other side of the aisle, as well as some religious leaders, to restrict access to vital  coverage.Those who often get lost in the debate around this issue. Although I believe that women's health care decisions should not continue to be unfairly politicized.We know the benefits of birth control for women and their families. We know how planned pregnancy and spacing children improves the quality of life and the outlook for the children and the whole family.And we know that is also improves the health of the woman.Often, however, we do not hear from the women for whom birth control may literally mean the difference between life and death.I'd like to share the story of a woman named Sally who is from my district in California. She is a working mother who could not afford to have more children. After numerous miscarriages, she relied on birth control to allow her body to heal properly before becoming pregnant again. After a couple of years of taking this medication, her body healed sufficiently to allow her to finally have a viable pregnancy.Another young woman from California has polycystic ovarian syndrome and uses birth control to regulate her hormones.She was prescribed the medication after her gynecologist had to scrape dozens of precancerous cysts from her uterus. According to her gynecologist, had another 6 months passed, this young woman would have developed full blown cancer.And another young woman who, after having a very difficult first pregnancy and being diagnosed with a serious heart condition, was told by her doctor that if she were to become pregnant again, it could cost her life and the life of her unborn child. And so she depends, in part, on  to not only to preserve her life, but to be there to raise her son.And these are just a few of the thousands of stories from women across the country who use  for many many medical reasons.Two years after the passage of the Affordable Care Act we are beginning to see true reforms in our health care system that expands access to vital preventative health services.We must protect these gains, instead of working against them. It is time to stop this War on Women and Women's Health Care.. President, I am going to spend a few minutes talking about the Affordable Care Act. I wonder how many  on the Republican side today are going to talk about ObamaCare. If they do, they should be in a very positive state. We know that as a result of this bill, the Affordable Care Act,  are getting or soon will get a rebate. One of the things we did--led by Senator Franken and others--was make sure that 80 percent of the money paid for premiums goes to patient care and any amount that doesn't has to be refunded to the patients. That is in the process now. In the month of August, all those moneys will come back in a significant amount to Americans who, in effect, are part of programs that spend too much on salaries for bosses.Also, we are going to talk a little bit today about what this Affordable Care Act does for women in America. As I said, I am going to speak very briefly, but we are going to have  come--as soon as I and the Republican leader finish--to talk about good things in this bill for women. I will touch on them very briefly.There is no question this bill that was signed by President Obama is a landmark piece of legislation. It signaled an end to insurance company discrimination among many but especially against those who are ill, those with a preexisting condition, and especially against women.As a result of this bill we passed, being a woman is no longer a preexisting disability in America. For many years, insurance companies charged American women higher premiums. Why? Because they are women. For years, American women have unfairly borne the burden of the high cost of  as well. Even women with private insurance often wind up spending hundreds of dollars more each year for birth control. Today, women of reproductive age spend two-thirds more out of their own pockets for health care costs than men, largely due to the high cost of birth control. But starting tomorrow--Wednesday of this week--new insurance plans must cover  and many other preventive health services for women. How much? No additional pay at all. Under health care reform, about 47 million women, including almost 400,000 women in Nevada, will have guaranteed access to those additional preventive services without cost sharing.Many on the other side downplayed the importance of these benefits or fought to repeal them altogether. It is hard to comprehend but true. Forcing American women to continue struggling with the high price of  has very real consequences. Every year millions of women in the United States put off doctors' visits because they can't afford the copay and millions more skip pills or shots to save money.It is no mystery why the United States has one of the highest rates of unintended pregnancies of all industrialized nations. Half of all pregnancies in America are unplanned. Of those unintended pregnancies, about half wind up in abortion. Increasing access to  is the most effective way to reduce unintended pregnancies and reduce the number of abortions, but the high cost is often a barrier.That is why, in 1997, Olympia Snowe and I began a bipartisan effort to prevent unintended pregnancies by expanding access to . It has not been an easy path, but we did make a start. As part of this effort, we helped pass a law ensuring Federal employees access to . It was a big issue. That was 15 years ago or more. It is an issue that is still important, but we started it, and I am very happy about that. Olympia Snowe was terrific to work with.When this benefit took place in 1999, premiums did not go up one single dime because neither did health care costs--not one penny. It was rewarding to note that a pro-life Democrat and pro-choice Republican were able to confront the issue with a practical eye rather than a political eye. It is unfortunate that over the last 15 years an idea that started as a common-ground proposal has become so polarizing in Congress. The controversy is quite strange when we consider that almost 99 percent of women have relied on  at some point in their lives, and many have struggled to afford it. The Affordable Care Act will ensure that insurance companies treat women fairly and treat birth control as any other preventive service.Prior to Senator Snowe and me doing this, anything a man wanted they got. Viagra, fine; we will take care of that. Anything a man wanted they got--but not a woman. The law doesn't just guarantee women's access to , it assures their access to many other lifesaving procedures as well.Thanks to the health care bill--the Affordable Care Act--insurance companies are already required to cover preventive care such as mammograms. For a person who is able to have a mammogram, it is lifesaving. Most  in the Senate know my wife is battling breast cancer. She had a mammogram in December and in August discovered a lump in her breast. Think of what would have happened if she had waited 1 year because she couldn't afford that mammogram. Frankly, the thought of it is very hard for me to comprehend because even though she had that mammogram in December, she had found it and was in stage 3 of breast cancer. It has been very difficult. What if she waited an extra year? Many  wait a lot longer than an extra year.Colonoscopies save lives. I was talking to one of my friends in the Senate who is going to have his done. They do it every 5 years. It takes at least 10 years for polyps to develop into cancer, and some polyps develop into cancer if they are not taken out. People need to have this done.Blood pressure checks, childhood immunizations without cost sharing is part of what is in this bill. It used to be a bill; now it is the law.Starting tomorrow--again, Wednesday of this week--women will no longer have to reach in their pockets to pay for wellness checkups. They can do screening for diabetes, HPV testing, sexually transmitted infection counseling, HIV screening and counseling, breastfeeding support, domestic violence screening and counseling. That is all in the law starting tomorrow. All women in new insurance plans will have access to all forms of FDA-approved  without having to shell out more money on top of their premiums. Ending insurance company discrimination will help millions more women afford the care they need when they need it. It will restore basic fairness to the health care system. Sometimes the practical thing to do is also the right thing to do, and that is what the legislation we worked so hard to pass is all about. It is about doing the right thing for everyone. Today we are going to focus on women.. President, I have said it time and time again all across New York State at event after event: We need more women's voices in our decisionmaking process. We need more women at the table in government and in business. When women are at the table, they bring a very different perspective to the same problems, a different set of solutions, a different approach. At the end of the day, the outcomes are better when women's voices are heard.But just when I thought I couldn't be any more dumbfounded by the debate around here in terms of denying access to women's health services, there was a hearing yesterday in the House of Representatives on the topic of  and all the witnesses were male. My colleague, Carolyn Maloney, had it quite right when she walked out on that farce.Let me be clear, once again: 99 percent of all America's women have used  at some time in their lifetime. When will they get this simple, nondebatable fact that the power to decide whether a woman will use  lies with her, not her boss, not her employer. What is more intrusive than trying to allow an employer to make medical decisions for someone who works for them? This has nothing to do with religious freedom, and you don't have to take it from me. Take it from Supreme Court Justice Antonin Scalia. In the majority decision of the 1990 case on Employment Division v. Smith, Scalia wrote:We have never held that an individual's religious beliefs excuse him from compliance with an otherwise valid law prohibiting conduct that the State is free to regulate.It is time to end this ridiculous, ideological fight once and for all and get back to the real business at hand of growing our economy and getting Americans back to work.But if our Republican colleagues want to continue to take this issue head on, we will stand here as often as is necessary and draw a line in the sand that the women of the Senate will continue to oppose these attacks on women's rights and women's health care.I yield the floor for my colleague from California.. President, I rise today to talk about the attack on women's health care that has been taking place over the last few weeks. There has been a heated debate in Washington about access to  for all women, regardless of her employer. There is a fundamental question here: Do women get control over their health care or do a small handful of --the presidents of companies and the presidents of insurance companies--get to choose for a woman whether she has access to birth control?First, I think it is important to note that 98 percent of all women have relied on  at some point in their lives. The nonpartisan scientists and experts at the Institute of Medicine who first recommended covering  without a copay did so because there are tremendous health benefits that come from use. But now some in this Chamber are holding up this transportation bill, a bill that would create more than 1 million jobs across the country and 7,000 jobs in Oregon, because, apparently, it is a higher priority to take away women's health choices, to come between a woman and her doctor.How is this relevant to a transportation bill? The answer: It is not. But regardless, we are going to vote on an amendment to this bill that would allow those CEOs of companies and insurance companies the right to refuse coverage not just of  but of any health care service they consider in violation of their personal convictions. So the personal convictions of one will be imposed on the dozens or hundreds of thousands of employees of that company. That is an incredible philosophy.I wish one of my Republican colleagues was on the floor to have a little conversation about it, because I would simply ask the question: Please explain why you think that the CEO of a company should get to come between a woman and her doctor and choose what health care she has access to.We talk a lot about big government. Well, this is big government. This is big government, giving power to an individual who runs a company, making choices for dozens or hundreds or thousands of their employees. Not only are we talking about  but any health care service.A company CEO could deny access to HIV or AIDS treatment, to mammograms, to cancer screenings, to maternity care, to blood transfusions. The list goes on and on.The Blunt amendment would allow an employer who objected to premarital sex to deny an unmarried pregnant woman maternity care. Is that right, that an employer should make that choice for all the employees who work for him or her? The Blunt amendment would allow an employer to deny children of employees access to vaccines because the CEO has a conviction that the vaccine poses a risk. Is that right, that the leader of a company should make that decision for Americans, coming between them and their doctors? The Blunt amendment would deny all health coverage if a CEO believes that physical health problems are simply God's will. That is the imposition of one's religion on those who work for you, making it their religious requirement. That is not the way the Constitution is designed. The Constitution is designed to allow us to all follow our own course, not to impose our course on everyone else through an employment relationship.The Blunt amendment would allow a CEO to say we are not going to cover end-of-life care because, in that conviction of that CEO--whether it be a man or a woman, the CEO believes that such end-of-life care is interfering with God's will. The Blunt amendment would allow an employer to deny access of folks who suffer from obesity to health care-related obesity programs because they believe that obesity comes from a moral failing.I think we can all understand with these examples that this is simply wrong--simply wrong--that a CEO should be able to take their personal convictions and impose them on their employees.This amendment is just the latest in a litany of extraordinary and extreme efforts by my Republican colleagues to curtail women's access to health care services. In the last year alone, Republicans nearly shut down the government over Planned Parenthood, tried to eliminate title X funding for low-income women's health, and tried to take away preventive services such as cancer screenings for women because of ideological objections.What this amendment is all about is that a few powerful CEOs dictate health coverage for the rest of America. If this, giving the powerful few the ability to dictate coverage for everyone else, isn't an overreach by an overly intrusive government, I don't know what is.Some have said that blocking women's coverage of  through their insurance doesn't affect access. They say that  doesn't cost that much; that, in the words of one Republican House Member, there is not one person who has not ever been able to afford  because of the price. Well, tell that to our young women between age 18 and age 34 who actually know what  costs. More than half of women struggle to afford it at some point. Tell that to a young couple struggling to figure out how they can afford to buy their birth control and put food on the table for their children. Tell that to a college student deciding whether to buy textbooks or fill her prescription. The truth is,  is hugely expensive without insurance. Based on information compiled by the Center for American Progress, the cost to an average woman using birth control pills continuously between age 18 and menopause would be more than $66,000 over the course of her lifetime if she had to pay out of pocket.I think this point bears reinforcement, because I would never have imagined that that is the price of birth control. I think the House Member I was quoting probably had no idea of what  costs, $66,000 for a woman between the age of 18 and menopause. Where I come from, that is a lot of money. A lot of money. That is 5.5 years of groceries for a family of four. That is putting two kids through the University of Oregon with 4-year degrees, not including the cost of room and board. That is a downpayment on a nice family home. In fact, where I come from, that is a third of the price of a nice family home. I think a lot of families would wish they had extra cash in their pockets right now. And I certainly have heard from many women in Oregon who are extremely concerned about the impact this amendment would have on their pocketbooks and on their health.Therese from Washington County writes to me:As one of your constituents, and a practicing Catholic woman on birth control, I am urging you to please back up the President on this most recent decision requiring  coverage for all of their employees . . . There are many, many reasons women use the pill in addition to preventing pregnancy. I have issues with pre-menopause. There are lots of women I know who have heavy periods, horrible acne, endometriosis, debilitating cramps . . . the list goes on. And to not treat these ailments because the treatment also prevents pregnancy is to allow women to suffer.Bridget from Multnomah County writes:This amendment does not protect religious freedom. Rather, it empowers insurance companies and businesses to impose their religious views on their employees and the insured. It is an example of government intrusion into the personal lives of millions of women who would prefer to privately make their own choice about family planning, without politicians interfering. It is incredibly, vitally important to me that you do not support this amendment. I happily attended a Catholic college and cannot imagine what I would have done had I found out that my health insurance did not cover birth control. . . . This would be a disastrous decision.It is not Congress's job, it is not an employer's job, to impose our beliefs on others. Let's let women and families make their own health care decisions without the heavy hand of government intrusion being provided from my colleagues across the aisle. Let's not put government between women and their doctors or between men and their doctors or between families and their doctors.I am committed to fighting for women's health and will do whatever I can to defeat this amendment--this amendment, which is so wrong on health care and so wrong on imposing religious views of one or personal convictions of one on the many.. President, I yield the floor.. Chair, I rise today to express my opposition to the Pence amendment and efforts to eliminate the Title X family planning program.Title X funding has connected millions of American women with essential health care since it was created forty years ago.Given that federal funds, including those provided through Title X funding, are already banned from being used for abortion service, the real impact of this proposal is that over 5 million Americans will lose access to health care services--including important preventive care, such as cancer screenings, annual exams, and .This is a time when we should be focused on creating jobs, helping middle-class families, and encouraging innovation, not restricting access to health care for millions of Americans.Thank you . Chair, I urge my colleagues to oppose these efforts to eliminate Title X funding.I thank my friend for yielding.Madam , I rise in strong opposition to the so-called Protect Life Act. Our first priorities here now must be to help to foster job creation and support middle class families.We are 280 days into this Congress without even having a jobs plan from the majority. Instead, the Republicans have chosen to continue their radical assault on women's health and health care in the guise of preventing the use of Federal funds to pay for abortion procedures.This bill is as unnecessary as it is offensive and inhumane. The bill would penalize private insurers that offer comprehensive plans; would allow hospitals to refuse lifesaving care to women; and would prevent access to birth control, including providing emergency  to sexual assault survivors.Instead of debating how to put Americans back to work, the majority party is spending our time on socially divisive bills that are going nowhere.I thank my colleague from New Jersey.In conclusion, I want to emphasize, again, that the Institute of Medicine found that contraceptives save lives. There are numerous studies that have shown that contraceptives lower the risk of developing ovarian cancer, help prevent unintended pregnancies, improve outcomes for children, and reduce abortions. So, my friends, it's hard to believe that in the year 2012, we are having a debate about whether or not insurance plans should cover contraceptives.Let's remember that for many women in this country, of the 98 percent of women that are using  at some point in their lives, let's remember that for many women, $1,000 a year is money that they can't afford. So let's support the administrative position recommended by the Institute of Medicine.. , I yield back the balance of my time.Madam , I rise today in outrage and disbelief that my Republican colleagues believe that they are more qualified to determine what a woman can do with her own body than she is.Republicans say that they are on the side of freedom and personal responsibility. They also say that they are against Big Government intrusion. But when it comes to women in this country, it's nothing but a bunch of empty rhetoric.Let's be clear: the debate about  is really about Republicans' deep-seated opposition to women making decisions about their own bodies. It is an outrage; it is unconscionable; it is insulting; and it is un-American to treat women, by virtue of their gender, as second-class citizens by denying their ability to control their own destinies.To my Republican colleagues, shame on you for waging your hypocritical war on women. Madam , I rise today to support the provisions in the Affordable Care Act that close the gender gap in health care. Beginning in 2014, health insurers cannot charge women more just because of their gender. Health insurers cannot deny coverage because of preexisting conditions like having survived cancer or having been pregnant or having been a victim of domestic violence, a condition that is almost as disproportionately experienced by women as pregnancy. And health care will have to cover preventive services like mammograms, screening for cervical cancer and, yes, .Republicans in Congress are trying to block these and other reforms so that health insurers or employers or Members of Congress can make women's health and reproduction decisions rather than trust those decisions to women. Madam , women can make those decisions. They really don't need help from insurers or employers or politicians or radio talk-show hosts. Women want to make those important personal decisions for themselves, and they should.Madam , it's been about 236 years since we declared independence, but it's only been 92 years since women could vote. We have fought for equality, fighting our way from being second-class citizens. One such battle is the discrimination in health care.For so long, insurance companies have denied coverage for preexisting conditions like pregnancy, breast cancer, C-sections, and domestic abuse. Ninety percent of the best-selling plans charge women more. Some plans require women to even get a pre-authorization before they can seek OB GYN services.From 2014, that will not be the case because of the Affordable Care Act. But just a few months ago, efforts by Republicans were to block . Now the attempts are to repeal the Affordable Care Act. This is the act that's been the great equalizer for women and children.Don't let them turn the clock back. We should not have to do another hundred years of battle for equality.Today marks the 40th anniversary of Roe v. Wade. Ultimately decisions about whether to choose adoption, end a pregnancy, or raise a child must be left to a woman, her family, and her faith, with the counsel of her doctor or health care provider.Roe v. Wade prevents politicians from interfering with a woman's personal decision. Were Roe ever to be overturned, it could have ripple effects. Our laws and traditions afford constitutional protections to personal decisions relating to, among other things, marriage, procreation, , family relationships, child-rearing, and intimacy. The right to privacy, strengthened by Roe, supports each of these areas.Overturning Roe could thus potentially erode the ability of individuals to make highly personal decisions free from intrusive government regulations and harm the overall right to privacy.. , beginning today, August 1, preventative health care provisions for women under the Affordable Care Act will begin going into effect for new insurance plans.As an increasing number of health insurance policies come under the reach of the Affordable Care Act, a growing number of women will finally be able to access--with no co-payments or deductibles--important preventative services including breastfeeding support, counseling for domestic violence, screenings for HIV, and well-woman visits.Also importantly, women with these new insurance policies will have access to all FDA-approved forms of . This is an unprecedented victory for women in every district and for women of all backgrounds.The use of birth control is nearly universal, with 99 percent of women using  at some point in their lives. A June Hart Research poll also found that 80 percent of all American women agree that cost should not be a barrier to using effective birth control.In addition, a letter released by leading law-and-religion scholar Leslie Griffin, and co- signed by 170 law professors at top religiously affiliated and non-religiously affiliated law schools clearly explains why the contraceptive-coverage benefit protects the rights of individual employees and in no way violates religious freedom. I ask unanimous consent to include the letter in the Record.. , I agree with the majority of Americans that all women have the right to affordable and effective birth control, and I am proud to have fought for this great achievement.Even before the Affordable Care Act went into effect, the benefits of publicly-funded family planning services could be seen, as these programs have assisted 7 million women each year and have prevented 2 million unintended pregnancies.Every dollar spent on family planning services is also estimated to save four dollars on future Medicaid costs for prenatal services, delivery, and one year of the baby's medical care.Affordable birth control and preventative health care services help women plan the timing and size of their families and protect their health. There is a direct link between increased access to birth control and declines in maternal and infant mortality.The critical provisions within the Affordable Care Act will therefore allow us to expand on these previous successes and give women the freedom to make their own private health decisions.. , I am proud to stand with my colleagues and to acknowledge the hard work and long hours we devoted to ensuring that women have access to health care they deserve and I pledge to continue championing women's access to these important preventative services.To President Barack Obama and the Congressional Leadership: We are law professors concerned about the Constitution, religious freedom, individual liberty, and gender equality. Today, the egalitarian notion that every American deserves to enjoy religious freedom is under attack from those who would cede employees' religious-liberty rights to corporate executives and nonprofit directors. In this cramped and one- sided view of religious freedom, supervisors are entitled to decide, based on their religious sentiments, whether their employees will be permitted to enjoy essential health benefits without the slightest concern for their religious beliefs. In particular, advocates claim that the Constitution gives all employers the right to veto their employees' health-insurance coverage of . This view, which is espoused by the U.S. Conference of Catholic Bishops and others, is both wrong as a matter of law and profoundly undemocratic. Nothing in our nation's history or laws permits a boss to impose his or her religious views on non-consenting employees. Indeed, this nation was founded upon the basic principle that every individual--whether company president or assistant janitor--has an equal claim to religious freedom. Nor does religious freedom provide a constitutional entitlement to limit women's liberty and equality, which are protected by the Fourteenth Amendment. Throughout the 1960s, religious leaders advocated laws banning  because they believed  was immoral. Nonetheless, in 1965 the Supreme Court held that contraceptive use enjoys constitutional protection in Griswold v. Connecticut. Moreover, the Equal Protection Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment requires that women enjoy the same health and reproductive freedom enjoyed by men. Women's liberty and equality are well-settled constitutional law and must remain so. Just as the Court ruled in 1983 in Bob Jones that the free exercise of religion may not override government policies against racial discrimination, today free exercise must not undermine women's liberty and equality. The diminishment of women's liberty and equality will be the result if organizations claiming a religious affiliation are granted an exemption from the Obama administration's policy requiring all employers to provide contraceptive insurance to their employees. The battle against legal  has been fought and lost before, not only in the 1960s, but also in the 1990s, when state legislatures and courts repeatedly rejected the argument that religious liberty provides a justification for undermining women's equality and denying them contraceptive insurance. The same principle must apply today in the battle between the U.S. Conference of Catholic Bishops and their allies and the Obama administration over insurance coverage for . Simply put, religious freedom requires religiously affiliated employers to obey the law rather than to become a law unto themselves. Even forty-seven years after the Supreme Court recognized a constitutional right to contraceptive use, many American women continue to lack access to effective and affordable . One reason for this has been the disparate insurance coverage for men and women. For that reason, twenty-eight states have passed contraceptive equity acts that help women gain equal access to reproductive health care. Several of those acts, just like the Obama administration's policy, require employer insurance plans that offer prescription-drug coverage to include contraceptive drugs and devices in their coverage. Most of those acts, just like the Obama plan, do not apply to houses of worship but to religiously affiliated employers like Catholic Charities, a large social-services organization that receives more than two-thirds of its funding from taxpayers, as well as to Catholic schools, universities and hospitals that employ both non-Catholics and Catholic women who use . The bishops and their allies opposed those bills in the legislatures and the state courts, arguing that religious freedom requires a complete exemption for all employers that claim a religious affiliation. As the recent debate demonstrates, that argument has a certain intuitive appeal to religious organizations that believe that free exercise allows religiously affiliated organizations to avail themselves of special rules. Under the leading free exercise case (Employment Division v. Smith), however, religious employers are subject to neutral laws of general applicability. Two state courts, namely the highest courts of New York and California, forcefully rejected the bishops' argument for exemptions from laws requiring the provision of  insurance to employees. The state courts first ruled that providing insurance could not be a matter of internal church governance protected from state interference by the First Amendment. The courts also held that insurance laws applying to all employers were neutral laws of general applicability that could be constitutionally applied to religious employers under Smith. The two holdings reinforce each other. As the New York Court of Appeals explained, ``The employment relationship is a frequent subject of legislation, and when a religious organization chooses to hire nonbelievers it must, at least to some degree, be prepared to accept neutral regulations imposed to protect those employees' legitimate interests in doing what their own beliefs permit.'' The California Supreme Court took a further step, ruling that its women's health act survived strict scrutiny. Under strict scrutiny, a law that substantially burdens a religious practice is upheld only if the law represents the least restrictive means of achieving a compelling interest. The court concluded that the women's health care act was narrowly tailored to the government's compelling interest in eliminating gender discrimination, obviating the need to undertake a substantial-burdens analysis. The California Supreme Court's strict scrutiny analysis remains relevant to criticisms of President Obama's plan. Opponents of the regulations have argued that they violate the Religious Freedom Restoration Act (RFRA), which subjects federal policies to strict scrutiny if they substantially burden a person's exercise of religion. The opponents are wrong. First, under existing case law, the provision of insurance coverage is arguably not the exercise of religion. Moreover, allowing individuals the choice of contraceptives does not substantially burden any exercise of religion. Even if the courts found a substantial burden on religion, however, the government's interests in protecting women's health and reproductive freedom, and combating gender discrimination, are compelling. The Institute of Medicine panel's report, and a mountain of evidence from other public health groups, amply demonstrate the government's compelling interest in ensuring widespread access to affordable  as a means of promoting health and remedying gender inequality. The California Supreme Court ruled that a law nearly identical to President Obama's initial plan to provide insurance coverage--including a virtually identical exemption for houses of worship--was narrowly tailored to protect women's equality. Thus President Obama's original regulation could have withstood constitutional scrutiny. The constitutional case is even clearer for the accommodation, which requires insurance companies to bear the burden of providing coverage to employees claiming a religious affiliation. The accommodation is even more narrowly tailored than the initial regulation was to reflect the government's interest in women's equality. In past Supreme Court decisions, religious employers have been required to pay Social Security and unemployment taxes for their employees and to observe the minimum wage laws. Federal courts of appeals have required religious employers to comply with the child labor laws and to observe the equal pay laws even when the employers believed head-of-household pay was required by the Bible. As the California Supreme Court observed, ``We are unaware of any decision in which this court, or the United States Supreme Court, has exempted a religious objector from the operation of a neutral, generally applicable law despite the recognition that the requested exemption would detrimentally affect the rights of third parties.'' The federal government must continue to protect the rights of women who need insurance laws so that they may make reproductive choices consistent with their individual consciences. Religious freedom must not provide a justification to deprive women of legal rights they should enjoy as employees and citizens. To the contrary, the First Amendment specifically preserves space for their religious liberty, and secures their right to act as individuals who exercise their own conscience on matters pertaining to their faith, body, and health.. President, I wish to thank my colleagues from California, New York, New Hampshire, and Washington State for the great job they have done. Before I speak about our judicial nominee, I wish to say I join them in their remarks and their feelings. This is about women's health, and women and men all over America are scratching their heads and saying: Are we fighting against ? Are we turning the clock back 60 or 70 years? It makes no sense.If a woman wants  for either birth control or other health purposes--and most women use it for other health purposes--it is up to that woman, not her employer. That is the bottom line. The vast majority of Americans, men and women, agree with that statement. That is true of every major religion from the polling data I have seen.Frankly, I don't understand this Republican Party. First, they made war on the Hispanic community, one of the fastest growing segments in America on immigration, and now they are making a war on the majority of America, women. While not every woman feels the way we do, the vast majority of women do. So I don't get it.Then to take an amendment such as that from my friend from Missouri and expand it even further and say, if someone owns a McDonald's, they can decide to not provide contraceptive services--the real reason might be because they don't want to pay extra or other reasons that are not religiously based--I don't get it.I hope we do have a vote on the Blunt amendment because I think the American  would not be for that amendment on an overwhelming basis. The more they learn about it, the more that happens, and that is why the tide is moving in that direction.I wish to thank my colleagues for allowing me to say a few words on that issue.. , I rise today to commemorate No Co-Pay Day.Today marks a victory for women's health care. Some 47 million women will now be able to get preventative services that couldn't before this rule went into effect.Any new insurance policies sold to individuals or employers must cover  without a co-pay as part of a larger package of mandatory co-pay-free women's preventive care benefits. Insurance plans that have already been purchased will have to start offering no-co-pay  when they renew.Before the Affordable Care Act, some insurance companies did not cover preventative services for women under their health care plans, and others required deductibles or co-pays for the care they needed.That changes today--all health insurance policies are required to cover new preventative care without charging women any co-pays or deductibles. Some of the new preventative services now available with no co-pay include annual visits, FDA-approved contraceptives, domestic violence screenings and counseling, breastfeeding support, HPV DNA testing for women 30 or older, HIV and sexually transmitted infections screenings, and gestational diabetes screenings that help protect pregnant women from one of the most serious pregnancy-related diseases.Too often, women put their families' health care before their own, especially when it comes to preventative care.Thanks to this new benefit in the Affordable Care Act, women can get the regular checkups and screenings that are so important to staying healthy without having to worry about how much it will affect the family budget.Today's announcement is just one more part of the overall implementation plan for improving our nation's health care system.The Affordable Care Act will provide greater access to affordable health care for millions of women and families who do not have coverage now, while also lowering health care costs, creating jobs, strengthening the middle class, and reducing the deficit.. President, I am pleased to be able to join my colleague from Maryland to try and point out how this issue is being manipulated.Almost 2 years ago, Congress--this institution--voted to end discrimination against women by health insurance plans. We voted to make it easier for women to seek referrals to see the health specialists they need, and we voted to give women greater access to affordable preventive health care services, including .These are important historic advances for women's health, and they should not fall victim to ideological policies.Over the last several weeks, we have seen women all across this country stand in huge numbers to support women's health. That grassroots support will be needed again and again to stave off ideological attacks on women's health care.Over the past year, House Republicans have repeatedly attempted to both eliminate funding for title X family planning and Planned Parenthood. Thankfully, we have been able to block these attempts in the Senate.Ninety-seven percent of the reproductive health services provided by Planned Parenthood in New Hampshire and across the country is preventive care. As we all know, preventive health care lowers health care costs and saves lives.We were reminded of the important role Planned Parenthood plays in preventive health when the Susan G. Komen Foundation decided to end its contracts with the provider. It is unfair to politicize women's health in the way we saw played out in the media last week. Women from across the country let their voices be heard. The 750,000 women who received breast cancer screenings at Planned Parenthood clinics with support from the Komen Foundation deserve better. They did not ask to be thrown into the political fire. They merely sought detection and treatment against a life-threatening disease.I am pleased Komen reversed that decision.I also commend the President for standing for women's health and reaffirming the recommendation of the Institute of Medicine to protect access to affordable birth control for all women. The decision requiring health care plans to cover  with no copays or deductibles will improve the lives of millions of women and their families.Birth control pills can cost up to $600 a year. It can be a serious economic issue for some women. Studies have shown it costs employers as much as 17 percent more to exclude contraceptive coverage in employee health care plans than to provide such coverage.Birth control is also a fundamental health care issue. Doctors and public health experts agree that increased access to birth control prevents unintended pregnancies. It is directly linked to declines in maternal and infant mortality and a reduction in the risk of ovarian cancer. It is linked to overall good health outcomes.Permanent and temporary  is critical for family planning purposes, but many women--a full 14 percent--use birth control for medical and health reasons, including helping to reduce the risk of some cancers, treatment for endometriosis, serious infections, and cysts.Let's be clear. In talking about the health benefits of birth control, I am not telling women they must use it. The decision on whether to pursue  is an individual choice that each woman must make for herself with her family. No part of the affordable care act or the President's ruling regarding insurance coverage forces any woman to use .However, birth control will now be affordable and accessible for any woman who, in consultation with her doctor, decides she needs or wants to use it. The policy represents one of the greatest advances for women's health in decades.Sadly, there is an aggressive and misleading campaign to deny this benefit to women. A conscience clause exists that exempts religious institutions such as churches from having to carry insurance that covers . . President, 335,000 churches and their employees in this country are exempt. Many have argued that conscience clause should be expanded to include religiously affiliated hospitals and universities in the name of religious liberty.The millions of women who work in a Catholic hospital or university--from the overnight nurse to the classroom aide or cafeteria worker--who choose to use birth control should have the same access as their counterparts at other institutions. That is their decision. It is not their employer's.There are religions that believe divorce is a sin. Should these institutions be exempt from our labor laws and be allowed to discriminate based on marital status? Of course not, and this is no different.A recent survey showed that 71 percent of American voters, including 77 percent of Catholic women voters, support the requirement to make birth control available to all. They understand that religious freedom means that all women--Catholic or non-Catholic--should have the opportunity to make their own decisions when it comes to birth control.I applaud the President for his decision and for putting women's health above politics.We know ideological attacks on women's health care will continue. But I thank my colleagues who are here today for speaking out against those who want to turn the clock back on women, who want to limit access and availability of women's health services. We are watching, and we are going to continue to be watching.I yield the floor.. President, I am pleased to join Senator Merkley, the Presiding Officer, and the others of my colleagues who will come to the floor this afternoon to speak out against the Blunt amendment.Over the past year, we have come to the floor many times to speak out against the attacks on women's health. Since this Congress began, we have seen assaults on Planned Parenthood, on Federal funding for family planning and on . But now we are facing the Blunt amendment which is even more extreme and far reaching than we have seen in all those other attempts to politicize women's health.This proposal would affect health care not just for women but for all Americans. It will affect the care of our children, of our husbands, and our wives. In short, the Blunt amendment would let your boss make your health care decisions instead of you and your doctor. The amendment would empower corporations or any other employer to deny virtually any preventive or essential health service to any American based on any religious or moral objection. I would point out that in the bill, religious and moral objections are not defined. So it can be whatever anybody interprets it to mean.Under the amendment, an employer could claim a moral or religious basis in order to deny things such as coverage for HIV/AIDS screenings or counseling, prenatal care for single mothers, mammograms, vaccinations for children, or even screenings for diabetes if the employer claims a moral objection to a perceived unhealthy lifestyle.While this amendment could affect men, women, and children, make no mistake; at the most fundamental level, this debate is about a woman's access to . Supporters of the amendment want to turn back the clock on women's health. They want to deny women access to preventive health services.Birth control is something most women use sometime in their lifetime, and it is something that the medical community believes is essential to the health of a woman and her family. I would point out the decision that the Blunt amendment claims to be addressing is one that was made not for political reasons but for medical reasons by the Institute of Medicine, and it was made because  is important to women's health. It prevents unintended pregnancies. The United States has the highest rate of unintended pregnancy in the developed world. Approximately one-half of all pregnancies here in America are unintended.  can help women and families address this.Access to birth control is directly linked to declines in maternal and infant mortality. In fact, the National Commission to Prevent Infant Mortality has estimated that 10 percent of infant deaths could be prevented if all pregnancies were planned.For some 1.5 million women, birth control pills are not used for  but for medical reasons. As the Presiding Officer pointed out in that poignant letter from your constituents who pointed out all of the reasons that women could take contraceptives, it could reduce the risk of some cancers, and it is linked to overall good health outcomes.As Governor of New Hampshire, I was proud to sign a law back in 1999 that requires health care plans to cover . At that time, we heard little controversy, little uproar, virtually no concerns about religious exemptions to the law. The bill in New Hampshire back in 1999 passed the Republican-led State legislature with overwhelming bipartisan support. In fact, in the House, almost as many Republicans voted for the bill as Democrats. I think that was because it was understood by  on both sides of the aisle of all religious faiths that requiring contraceptive coverage was about women's health and it was about basic health care coverage.For 12 years, that law in New Hampshire has been in place with little opposition because it has worked. And it is particularly unfortunate, as we are having this debate about women's health, thinking about what happened back in New Hampshire, to see this debate become so politicized. It is not right. It is not what is the best interest of women's health, and I urge my colleagues to oppose the Blunt amendment.The decision about a woman's health care should be between her, her doctor, her family, and her faith. Let's not turn back the clock on women's access to health care.. President, I yield the floor.. President, I rise to join my colleagues in opposition to the amendment offered by Senator Blunt.It is discouraging that when we should be having a debate on our Nation's infrastructure and surface transportation needs, we are instead talking about women's health and . As the Senator from California noted earlier, my State is a State that understands the importance of upgrading our infrastructure and investing in surface transportation. I live just a few blocks from the bridge that collapsed in the middle of that river on that sunny day in Minnesota, an eight-lane highway, in the Mississippi River. So we understand the importance of investment in infrastructure, and that is what we should be focusing on in this bill. Instead, we have taken a different turn.I understand there are many different perspectives and opinions when it comes to issues related to  and women's health; however, we shouldn't be talking about them when we are supposed to be talking about infrastructure, highway, roads, and bridges. People are free to give speeches, they are free to talk about whatever they want, but this amendment doesn't belong on this bill. Nevertheless, it is here, and I think it is very important that we address it and the American  understand what it would mean.Unfortunately, this amendment impacts more than just . This amendment ultimately limits our ability to address our health care challenges through prevention and wellness. Chronic conditions such as diabetes, heart disease, and cancer can be avoided through prevention, early detection, and treatment. We all know that. That is pretty common knowledge in our country.During health care reform, we made great strides in improving the health and well-being of our Nation by strengthening preventive services. We addressed prohibitive costs by eliminating copays and cost sharing for essential services such as mammograms and colonoscopies. We addressed access issues by ensuring coverage for preventive autism or cholesterol screenings, to name a few. I also fought to include the EARLY Act, which promoted early detection for breast cancer for young women. These types of preventive and early detection services are vital to so many  in this country.As a cochair of the Congressional Wellness Caucus, a bipartisan caucus, I have also heard from numerous employers that understand a healthy workforce only increases productivity and output. It would be unfortunate if we eliminated access to prevention and wellness services that keep our Nation's workforce strong and productive. Because of the necessity of these services and the benefits they provide to men, women, and children, including , I asked my colleagues to oppose the Blunt amendment.The Blunt amendment would allow any employer or insurance company to refuse to cover any of the prevention services, any essential health benefit or any other health service required under the health care law, allowing these entities to deny critical health care to the millions who rely on these entities for insurance. The consequences of this provision could mean employers and other organizations for any reason refusing to offer coverage of lifesaving preventive services such as mammograms or tobacco cessation would be based on employer discretion. That is why I don't think it is a surprise that organizations such as the American Cancer Society, the American Academy of Pediatrics, the American Public Health Association, and the March of Dimes oppose this amendment.I think we all know the American Cancer Society, March of Dimes, American Academy of Pediatrics, and these groups tend not to get involved in  issues, and that goes to show us right now this amendment is much broader than just talking about .According to the American Cancer Society:Annually, seven out of ten deaths among Americans are attributed to chronic diseases such as cancer, diabetes, heart disease and stroke. The Affordable Care Act made significant strides to stem this epidemic by ensuring patients would have access to essential care that could address prevention, early detection, and treatment--all necessary elements to improve the health and well-being of our nation. Unfortunately, the expansive nature of the proposed Blunt amendment would directly undercut this progress.I am concerned the broad-based nature of this amendment would prevent men, women, and children from getting the preventive services they need as a result of the personal beliefs of a single individual or an employer or an insurance company. I do not believe this is the way to protect Americans in need of health care services, and I urge my colleagues to oppose this amendment.I yield the floor and I suggest the absence of a quorum.I thank the gentlelady for yielding.. , I want to commend President Obama and Health and Human Secretary Sebelius for including  as a preventive service that health insurance plans are required to cover at no cost.This decision, based on the recommendation of the Institute of Medicine, is the right decision for women. It affirms the individual freedom of women to make choices about their health and their future.Following the administration's decision, there has been an uproar from the religious community. While some claim it is in violation of First Amendment rights, the simple truth is that this decision upholds the First Amendment rights of millions of women to not have their reproductive health managed by religiously affiliated organizations who may not share their own beliefs.This decision stands up for women's freedom, as it is a woman's right to decide when and how she wants to have a family, whether or not she chooses to use birth control, as 98 percent of Catholics do. If she subscribes to a religion that teaches against the use of birth control, then she is free to choose not to use it either. If she would rather use birth control for the many health protections and benefits that it provides, such as the fibroid tumors, migraine headaches, and bleeding that cannot be controlled, she should also be free to do so. Either way, the choice should belong to her and to her alone.It is also important to note the details of the administration's decision.We're not talking about churches or organizations that exist for the sole purpose of teaching their religion.These organizations are totally exempt from providing coverage for .What we are talking about is religiously affiliated organizations, such as hospitals, schools and universities. Millions of women are employed by these types of organizations, and those women do not necessarily share the beliefs of their employers. In fact, I think one of the most egregious things felt by many women is that whatever their own religions teach, they are not going to be allowed to go by that.Catholic hospitals can and do--and we want them to--employ Baptists, Methodists, Protestants, Muslims, Jews, Buddhists, agnostics, and atheists. Teachers, cafeteria workers, administrative staff members at religious schools and universities are not necessarily members of that religion. Those employers should not have the right to decide whether or not the women on their insurance plans can access birth control. They still have separation of church and state.Many religions that teach against the use of birth control also teach against divorce, but institutions affiliated with those religions are not allowed to discriminate against employees based on their marital status. They do not have an exemption from labor laws because of their religious beliefs. This is no different.A recent decision by the administration shows that they are standing with women and supporting their freedom to make the choices that impact themselves and their families. Surveys have repeatedly shown that women and men across this country support providing access to  at no cost and that that support is equally strong among members of the very religious who are fighting this decision.I applaud the President and Secretary Sebelius for supporting the health and freedom of women, and I support their decision to put women's personal health and freedom first.I yield to the gentleman from Illinois.. President I come to the floor today with a number of my women Senate colleagues to talk about what happened yesterday at the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform. They held a hearing on the administration's decision to make sure that women have access to affordable , but guess who was missing. The women. This is a picture of the first panel from yesterday's hearing. Not one woman was seated at this table, not one woman at the table, yet the topic was women's health.What is more difficult to understand is that when female members of the House committee asked for a woman to testify along with the men, they were denied. Their request was simple: to allow Sandra Fluke, a Georgetown Law School student, to testify on this panel of all men. As a woman she could speak firsthand about how this rule would impact women. But their request was denied because the chairman said Sandra Fluke was unqualified.How can a woman be unqualified to talk about women's health care? Yet every one of these men on the panel was deemed to be qualified to talk about women's health care. I am disappointed. I know it is a disappointment that is shared by millions of women across this country. I am saddened that here we are, in 2012, and a House committee would hold a hearing on women's health and deny women the ability to share their perspective.Time and time again, women have been silenced in this discussion, a discussion about our own very personal health care decisions. In fact, a recent analysis of the leading cable news channels showed that almost twice as many men as women were invited to join the conversation.I think it is critical to understand that the underlying issue here is about affordable access to --something that is basic to women's health. Birth control is something that most women use at some point in their lifetime and something that the medical community believes is essential to the health of women and their families. Research shows that access to birth control is directly linked to declines in maternal and infant mortality, that it can reduce the risk of ovarian cancer, and that it is linked to overall good health outcomes.Some women, 14 percent of them, use birth control not as contraceptives but to treat serious medical conditions. That is about 1.5 million women.When the administration first announced its decision to require employers to offer health insurance coverage for , there was a robust conversation about religious liberty. In response to that, the President modified his decision last week, preserving the religious liberty of those religiously affiliated institutions, such as hospitals or universities, but also protecting the women who work for them. His decision ensured that all women have access to contraceptive coverage, and if a woman's employer has a religious objection, women can get that critical coverage directly from their health plans.The Catholic Health Association has supported this policy, and yet, as we saw yesterday, some attempt to continue to politicize this issue. We cannot lose sight that this is at the most fundamental level of debate about women's preventive health.Women deserve a voice in this debate because, after all, in the end this is about our health and it is about a health care decision that is between women, their families, their doctors, and their own faith.I yield the floor.. Chair, I rise today to oppose the amendment offered by my colleague from Indiana, . Pence to H.R. 1, the Full-Year Continuing Appropriations Act.. Pence's amendment would deny any federal funding to Planned Parenthood health facilities throughout the country. As a supporter of Planned Parenthood and the services that it offers to my constituents in my central New Jersey district, I firmly oppose this purely political amendment.This should not be a pro-life or pro-choice debate about one of the many services that Planned Parenthood provides. In fact, under current law no federal funds can be used for abortion services. Less than three percent of the services provided by Planned Parenthood are abortion related. The Pence amendment is in fact a fundamental attack on our nation's oldest and most respected reproductive healthcare provider, the over 5 million men and women that visit Planned Parenthood annually, and the one in five American women who will visit a Planned Parenthood center in their lifetime.Disqualifying Planned Parenthood from receiving federal funds would disproportionately affect health-care services that prevent unintended pregnancy and reduce the need for abortion. The vast majority of Planned Parenthood's medical services are related to , testing and treatment for sexually transmitted infections; cancer screening, and other services like pregnancy tests and infertility treatment. Despite any claims to the contrary, the Pence amendment is clearly a direct attack on prevention services, and would increase the number of unwanted pregnancies.More than 90 percent of the care that Planned Parenthood health centers provide every day is primary and preventive, including wellness exams, cancer screenings, immunizations,  and STD testing and treatment. For many women, the only doctor or nurse they see is one they visit at a women's health center. In fact, more than 6 in 10 patients who receive care at a women's health center like Planned Parenthood consider it their primary source of health care.The 28 Planned Parenthood health centers in New Jersey serve over 90,000 patients per year for a wide range of primary and reproductive health services. In 2009 alone, these centers performed almost 45 thousand cervical screening tests that detected over 2 thousand abnormal results and 27 thousand breast exams that detected over 800 abnormal results. Taking away funds from Planned Parenthood would deny women life saving medical testing, increase unwanted pregnancies, and deny primary care services to millions of women throughout the country. I urge my colleagues to oppose the Pence amendment.I want to thank the gentlelady for yielding and also for standing up for women's health, not only today and during these very difficult times, but each and every day of her life.As a former devout practicing Catholic, I fully understand and respect the Church's doctrine on contraceptives. Even though I disagree with it, I fully respect it and I understand it. Also, I know that the separation of church and state is a fundamental principle that we must maintain.. , the administration's decision to provide choices to access quality, affordable health care, family planning services, including contraceptives, are vital for women's health and well-being. This is really not about a mandate. The rule would not force anyone with a religious objection to use or prescribe FDA-approved . The fact is that Catholic bishops know that the 335,000 religious institutions and organizations and churches and places of worship are exempt. In fact, no woman will be required to use contraceptives or to even access contraceptives if she does not want to do that. This ruling is about women making their own decisions as to whether to use contraceptives or not. It's about access.Religion must not force discrimination and discriminatory policies against, for example, an employee who works in the cafeteria of a hospital who chooses to plan her family. She should not be denied this coverage because of where she works. Low-income women finally--finally--will have equal access to contraceptive services if they choose.So we want to make sure tonight that the facts are presented appropriately. Yes, we've witnessed this war against women systematically come against women's health for the last year now, and it's about time we start really being truthful to the public and get the facts out there and not allow the misinformation to really put women, once again, in a position of not having access to contraceptive care.So I believe that this decision was right. I know that it allows for religious exemptions. And this rule should now allow for employees, for nurses, for health care workers to access  when they want to, and if they choose not to. They don't have to. But we should not allow discrimination to take place anymore.I yield now to the gentlelady from California, Congresswoman Lois Capps.I thank my colleague, Barbara Lee from California, for yielding to me. And I also want to thank our colleague from New York, Nita Lowey, for her leadership in organizing this opportunity for us to speak, to speak with one voice, we who are Members of Congress, women Members of Congress. And speaking for myself, some of us are mothers, are grandmothers. And my career in public health greatly informs what I'm about to say.. , I rise today in support of the Obama administration's decision to include  in their very, very important list of preventive services which will make women's health care more affordable. Let us be clear: This was not a political decision on the part of the administration, on the part of our President, nor was it intended to attack any religious institution. It was a decision based on extensive science and the expert recommendations made by these scientists with the goal in mind of keeping women and their children healthy.However, a great deal of misinformation has been spread about this rule, and some have decided to, again, use women's health as a political football. But the truth is that this issue is not as divisive as many would like it to be. Almost all women use a form of an FDA-approved birth control at one point or another in their lifetime. This includes 98 percent of Catholic women as well. And most Americans, men and women, believe that women--not their bosses--that women should have the choice of which health care services they can and want to access.But, you know, some would have us believe that the administration's rule is in some way radical. It is not. Twenty-eight States already require the coverage of  in their insurance plans, and the new Federal standard is based on the one that has worked in my home State of California for many years. It has done so without any religious hospitals dropping coverage or firing employees. It's worked perfectly well. The administration now has made the right call, and I speak on behalf of women in this country urging the administration to stay the course.Now it is my honor and pleasure to yield to our colleague from Maryland, Donna Edwards, a very appropriate person to speak on this topic.I don't know why everything we do has to be a fight--not a disagreement, a fight. This bill was brought up on February 7, and we have been spending the better part of a month dealing with --by the way, an amendment I had to offer because they wouldn't bring it up so we could vote on it.My math says this agreement that has been suggested by the Republican leader calls for 34 amendments. I understand and I appreciate that some of them are related to what is in this bill--some of them are. As I indicated earlier, we have been dealing with . There are amendments dealing with clean water standards and clean air standards. Nothing in this bill should deal with America having to breathe more mercury, more lead, and then, just for good measure, how about some arsenic? That has nothing to do with the highway bill.As I said before, the amendment I looked at from my friend from Louisiana calls for drilling for oil anyplace there is water. Next they will be going to Lake Mead outside Las Vegas. We are producing more domestic oil now than in decades. The President has opened areas in Alaska that have never been opened before.Why can't we just invoke cloture on this bill and move forward on it? It is not easy to get to conference--we know that--but we could go to conference. The House is doing its best to come up with a bill. They are struggling hard.On the first day of April, it will be April Fools' Day for a lot of  in America because we will lose almost 800,000 jobs on April 1. It will be a real April Fools' Day. So if we can't move forward on this--why can't we get seven Republicans to break from the pack over here and say that not everything we do has to be an arm-wrestling contest?I appreciate that we at least have something in writing. I appreciate that. I will take a look at it, but I object.I thank my friend.Madam , how much floor time do we have to spend on redundant legislation that will surely die in the Senate and has already been threatened with a veto?We've had this debate. We know what the final result will be. Federal funding of abortion is already illegal except in cases of incest, rape, and life-threatening situations. We accept that. But while millions of Americans are losing their jobs and seeing their life savings evaporate, the Republican majority insists on wasting our time on publicly demagoguing a deeply personal issue.This bill also contains a refusal clause that would allow emergency room health professionals to deny lifesaving care to a pregnant woman because of their personal beliefs. Evidence shows that barriers to abortion services increase the risk of maternal injury and death, and that the best way to reduce the number of abortions is with accurate sexual education and the widespread availability of . Yet the same  who oppose abortions also oppose appropriate sex education and family planning services.The Supreme Court has ruled abortion is legal. Federal funds don't pay for abortion. Those policies are in place. Let's move on with help for the millions of unemployed individuals who need a good job and leave the women of America alone to control their own body and their own lives.Madam , I rise in opposition to H.R. 358, the Protect Life Act.We've worked so hard over the last few decades to advance women's health and the Protect Life Act just steamrolls right over that progress.This bill would bar anyone getting federal health subsidies from purchasing private insurance policies that include abortion coverage. This makes it unlikely that ANY health plan would cover abortion, alienating all American women from truly comprehensive health plans.It allows hospitals to refuse to provide life-saving abortions to women who face imminent threat of death.And it gives states the ability to attack coverage of non-abortion related services, such as .I support a woman's legal right to opt for, or against, an abortion. The decision is private. It's a matter of faith and it's a matter of conscience, and our Constitution recognizes this.The Protect Life Act is a shameful attempt to impose a radical political agenda on women. It strips away their individual liberties and puts their health at serious risk. This bill is wrong, this bill is dangerous, and this House should reject it.. , on Monday the Earth's 7 billionth person 
was born. Our population has doubled in the last 50 years, and it could 
double again by the end of the century if we let it.This rapid growth is straining water and food supplies, reducing 
access to health care and education, and even creating instability and 
violence.Most importantly, this growth is denying women in nations like Yemen 
and Afghanistan, who still average more than five children, their basic 
human right to decide if, when, and how many children to have; 215 
million women around the world say they want access to  
but can't get it. We can fulfill that need and save lives, improve 
lives, and save tax dollars while we do it.According to the Guttmacher Institute, meeting this unmet need for 
family planning could save the lives of 251,000 women and 1.7 million 
newborns, improve rates of education and health, and save a net total 
of $1.5 billion.America can lead the world in family planning as it once did, but we 
have to increase our investment in international family planning.. , there are few things more universal to the health and lives of women than birth control. It is basic health care. It's essential to women's economic independence and professional fulfillment. In fact, with the swearing-in of our new colleague from Oregon, we now have 94 women in Congress. My guess is there would be about half that number without the benefit of contraceptives. That all began 40 or 50 years ago.So, when the  said this morning that Congress must overturn the President's policy ``acting on behalf of the American ,'' I'm not really sure what he's talking about because the President's decision is on the right side of common sense, sound science, and public opinion. It enjoys support from a majority of Americans and a majority of Catholics.Let me add that many of my House colleagues who want to deny access to  are the same ones who want to cut programs that help women and families facing unwanted pregnancies.I applaud the President for standing up to reactionary forces and standing up for women's health care and women's freedom.. , we began today's session with a debate on . It seems to pit the availability and access to care, which I believe is a fundamental right, against whether you can legislate the behavior of religious institutions. It seems like an intractable dilemma that we face, but that's not so.. , look to Hawaii. Since the 1970s, Hawaii has led the way in terms of medical plans and medical provisions. We have had prepaid health care since then, and of course, as you can imagine, we've had this debate. We had this debate in 1999. The way the State resolved it--and I was there--was that there was the religious exemption given for religious organizations broadly defined, but the employee was also entitled to buy coverage from the insurer at no extra cost.What does this mean?This means that it may have been, maybe, an additional $2 or $3 a month. The reality of it is, . , that they didn't pay anything. The insurers covered it because they knew that it was in their best interests. And guess what? Many of the religious organizations did not opt out.So don't speculate. See the reality. Look at Hawaii.Madam , a silent movie won this year's Oscar for Best Picture. That award just as easily could have gone here to the House, because the House Republicans continue to be silent on job creation and seem intent on dragging America back to 1929 when the last silent film won the Oscar.When Republicans recently held a hearing on , they did their best to silence female voices, inviting five men and zero women to testify on the topic of female reproductive health.Since they gained the majority, House Republicans have been painfully silent about actually creating jobs. In 2011, they voted for a budget that would have cut 700,000 of them. This year, they proposed a transportation bill that would cut another 550,000 of them. As Americans ask for real job proposals, Republicans remain silent.It's time that someone actually started speaking up for the American . Despite 23 straight months of job growth, there are still almost 8 million  trying to reenter the workforce. Unlike this year's Best Picture winner, this continued silent treatment from the Republican majority offers Americans no entertainment and, sadly, no employment.. , I rise today to speak about the importance of ensuring coverage for contraceptives and the impact this has on women's health.For centuries, important aspects of women's health care have been treated as a political football by advocates on all sides of the issue. In politicians' efforts to score political points, women suffer because of a lack of access to coverage, a lack of reliable information about health care choices, and because many women are vilified for some of the health care choices they make.It's time to take politics out of women's health, and it's time to ensure that women's health coverage includes full access to . Birth control can have significant health care benefits for women and their families. It can significantly reduce health care costs. And it's one of the most commonly taken drugs in the United States.We need to stop playing games with 's health and instead live up to our responsibilities to protect the right of women to make the health care choices that are right for them. I look forward to working every Wednesday to talk about women's health.. President, I want to, since he is on the floor, recognize the Senator from Utah and his extraordinary service in the U.S. Senate. We do not agree on this issue, but he has done a tremendous job for the  of Utah over many years.I rise to talk a little bit about the amendment we are considering that would allow all employers and insurers to deny coverage, particularly for women, on any health care procedure or service they object to--not the women, but the employers and the insurance companies--on moral or religious grounds.The first thing I want to do--and I have not been around here a long time, but I want to first observe in what context we are discussing and debating this amendment. We have devoted extensive floor time on this amendment about  and the lack of coverage for women's health care in the context of a job-creation bill, in the context of the Transportation bill. This is the bill I hold in my hand. This is the bill that is on the floor of the U.S. Senate right now. The title says:A bill (S. 1813) to reauthorize Federal-aid highway and I would have thought those ``other purposes'' would be related to transportation, transit, to job creation in the United States. I do not think the ``other purposes'' that are talked about in this bill have anything to do with  or women's health. But that is what we are spending our time debating this week on the floor of the Senate, instead of passing this Transportation bill and putting  in this country back to work. How is this conversation relevant to job creation or to infrastructure? It is not.In my home State of Colorado, I have held hundreds of townhall meetings in red parts of the State and blue parts of the State, and I do not remember a single time this issue--the issue that is of concern with this amendment--has been raised by anybody--by anybody--in 3 years.I can tell you what  are talking about in Colorado. They want to know why we are not spending our time working on how to create more jobs for them, more jobs in the 21st century in this country or how to fix this Nation's debt or deficit or how we pass a bipartisan Transportation bill that creates immediate jobs and fixes a crumbling infrastructure, while maintaining the infrastructure assets our parents and grandparents had the thoughtfulness to build for us--another case where political games are risking our ability to provide more opportunity, not less, for the next generation of Americans, something every single generation, until this one at least--the politicians--has treated as a sacred trust. Instead, over the last several weeks, we have continued to debate about women and whether they should have access to the health care services they need, and whether they should be the ones who are able to make the decisions about the health care services they need. And we sit here and wonder why the U.S. Congress is stuck at an approval rating of 11 percent. Maybe it is because we are talking about  in the context of a Transportation bill.I have a wife and three daughters--12, 11, and 7. There are a lot of women in my life telling me what to do every minute of every day and during the week, and thank goodness for that. One thing I know is they do not need to be told by the government how to make their own health care decisions--nor do the 362,000 Colorado women who would be affected immediately if this amendment passed.This amendment is written so broadly that it would allow any employer to deny any health service to any American for virtually any reason--not just for religious objections. Women could lose coverage for mammograms, prenatal care, flu shots, to name only a few essential services, and, yes--and yes--the right to make decisions around  and their own reproductive health.My State, the great State of Colorado, is a third Democratic, a third Republican, and a third Independent. I can tell you, the last time there was an initiative on the ballot in my State to let the government intervene in women's health care decisions, it was defeated by 70 percent of the voters. Seventy percent of the voters said: You know what. We would rather leave these decisions to women to make for themselves. That is what my daughters want as well.People are speaking loudly and clearly on this issue all across the country. These are not the issues we should be debating right now. We need to be having the conversations  are having at home in my townhalls instead of distracting them with politics: How do we create more jobs? How do we reform our entitlements so Medicare, Medicaid, and Social Security are here for our grandchildren and for our children? How do we create an education system that is training our  for the 21st century? How do we assure poor children in this country that they can have a quality education and make a contribution to this economy?So I urge my colleagues to oppose this amendment and help us get back on the road to passing a bipartisan Transportation bill that will create new jobs and make substantial improvements in our economy and infrastructure. There is a time to debate this, but that time is not now when we are having this infrastructure discussion, we are having this transportation discussion.I urge my colleagues to support the rights of women all across this country and their families and reject this amendment.. President, I yield the floor.. , at a speak-out on women's right to birth control, I solicited comments from the huge audience that attended, and here are a few.Reverend Luke Pepper writes:As a Christian and as a minister, I believe that it is important and necessary that we promote the quality of health care and livelihood of the families in this country. Providing access and availability of quality  to women is the right and moral thing to do.A young anonymous woman wrote:I'm a virgin. I take birth control because I have polycystic ovary syndrome, and it will reduce my risk of uterine cancer.Diane writes:My oldest son is on the autism spectrum. Nearly 6 years after he was born, my husband and I judged our family ready to support and nurture a second child. If, through the lack of access to birth control, we had been forced to risk an unplanned pregnancy before we were ready, we would not have had the resources--financial or emotional--to give our older son the care and support he needed that enabled him to become the fine young man he is. Nor would we have been able to devote full care and attention to his beloved young brother.. , I rise today to join my colleagues in speaking up about women's health. As we approach the anniversary of the passage of the Affordable Care Act, I want to remind all of us about some of the challenges that women have faced before health reform was signed into law.Before health reform was signed into law, insurance companies could deny coverage to women due to so-called preexisting conditions like cancer or even simply having been pregnant. Insurance companies could force women to pay more for their coverage simply because of their gender. And now, thanks to the Affordable Care Act, women will be able to see their OB/GYN without a referral. You've heard that repeatedly today because that's critical and important to women. Women will have access to critical preventive services like birth control with no out-of-pocket costs. And that ultimately saves health care expenses.Already, hundreds of men and women from all across San Diego have shared with me how important affordable access to  is for them and for their families. They can't afford to have it stripped away by this Congress.I urge my colleagues to build on these reforms to ensure that all women have equal access to health care.