. , religious liberty is under attack by the administration.The right of religious liberty is guaranteed in the First Amendment of the Constitution because it is a foundation for other rights. Yet the administration is forcing religious organizations to violate their conscience by indirectly providing their employees with services that trample on those religious beliefs.The administration's so-called ``promise of accommodation'' changes nothing. It is just political word games.The issue is not about . This is an issue about religious liberty. It affects not just Catholics, but many religions and individuals of faith.Regardless of where Americans stand on the issue of , sterilization or the morning-after pill, it should be alarming to all who believe the government should not persecute religion or substitute a government secular doctrine and impose it on citizens.The Constitution does not accommodate for religious liberty, it demands it, whether this administration likes it or not.And that's just the way it is.. , I rise today to speak about an issue that's deeply important to me, not as a Republican or Democrat, but as a Catholic American.President Obama's Department of Health and Human Services announced it will require religious institutions like Catholic schools, Catholic hospitals, and Catholic charities to cover services that violate their core beliefs, like , sterilization, and the morning-after pill. Catholic schools like Notre Dame will be forced to pay millions in penalties if they don't comply with the Federal Government mandate.Now, this is about much more than just . This is about Catholic schools and Catholic hospitals having to sacrifice conscience to comply with ObamaCare.I believe that this is a clear violation of the Free Exercise Clause of the First Amendment of the Constitution. What's worse, I believe that this is a move by the Obama administration to establish secularism over religion. That would strike at the core of religious liberty of the Constitution and who we are as Americans. It's just one more reason why ObamaCare is bad law and needs to be repealed.Madam , from the 1099 provision, to IPAB, to the hundreds of billions of dollars in cuts to Medicare, it's clear that President Obama's health care law is bad medicine for America. But the recent ruling by the Department of Health and Human Services is the most egregious example of Federal intrusion to date.Soon after the ruling was announced, I began hearing from citizens across Michigan's First District. Letters and emails came in by the hundreds, with the vast majority in opposition to the administration's position. It is evident from this correspondence that many northern Michiganders are deservedly upset about the administration's blatant attack on our religious freedom enshrined in the First Amendment.The opposition to this law is not about access to , as my friends on the other side of the aisle would have you believe. Women and men can already access  at very low cost. The debate is over the fact that the administration's new rule strikes at the fundamental beliefs of our democracy.The concept that the Federal Government can force  to pay for actions that violate the teachings of their faith goes against two centuries of American religious freedom. This action represents the very government overreach that the Framers of our Nation fought against and the reason the Bill of Rights was added to the Constitution.Madam , like most northern Michigan citizens, I see the right to practice one's religion as a fundamental liberty, and I intend to fight this action forever.. , a report issued by the Centers for Disease Control on February 13 made headlines with the news that young adults account for 50 percent of all STD infections.This caught my attention because, as a father with two of my four kids in their late teens, I want them to avoid such risks. I am not alone. A recent national survey revealed that most parents feel the same way, regardless of race or political affiliation. They want their children to have the best chance for optimal health and, so, support risk avoidance education, sometimes called ``abstinence education,'' for their kids.However, currently there is a troubling 16 to 1 Federal funding disparity between -centered education and risk-avoidance education. That is why I introduced H.R. 718, the Abstinence Education Reallocation Act. The bill brings some parity to programs that give our kids the facts about  and avoiding risky behavior.. , our teens deserve the best and most accurate information for their optimal health.. President, this was very frustrating to me. I asked a key question, and I could not get a straight answer. It also demonstrates many of the problems associated with employer mandates.I believe the sponsor of this amendment is completely sincere. I want to make that clear. But this issue has become yet another sad example of election-year politics. I believe a good compromise could have been reached and should have been worked out. For example, in Maine, State law requiring  coverage includes a specific exemption for religious employers, such as churches, schools, and hospitals. Surely we could have reached a similar accommodation. Unfortunately, what we are left with is another example of the political pandering that has so tested Americans' patience.Since I could not and did not receive a straightforward answer to my question about protecting self-insured faith-based organizations, I feel that I have to vote for Senator Blunt's amendment, with the hope that its scope will be further narrowed and refined as the legislative process proceeds.Critics of the Blunt amendment have charged that employers could use it as an excuse to deny coverage for services simply as a means to reduce their insurance costs. As Senator Blunt, however, has pointed out, the amendment includes specific language to require that the overall cost of the coverage remains the same even though an employer excludes certain services because of their religious beliefs. As a consequence, under this amendment, employers would have no incentive to exclude coverage of items or services simply because of financial considerations.. President, while I plan to support the amendment, I do so with serious reservations because I think the amendment does have its flaws. But when the administration cannot even assure me that self-insured faith-based organizations' religious freedoms are protected, I feel I have no choice.I hope that the Senate will now be able to move forward to address the many important and pressing issues facing our Nation such as job creation, energy and rebuilding our nation's infrastructure.Dear Secretary Sebelius: Like many Americans, I was very concerned when, on January 20, 2012, the Department of Health and Human Services issued a final regulation to require religious universities, hospitals, charities and other faith- based organizations to pay for health insurance that covers contraceptives and sterilizations regardless of the organization's religious objections. I believe that such a broad mandate poses a threat to our religious freedom and presents the Catholic church and other faith-based organizations with an impossible choice between violating their religious beliefs or violating federal regulations. I was somewhat reassured when, on February 10, the President announced an ``accommodation'' that would require insurance companies rather than religious organizations to provide these services. According to the White House statement, ``religious organizations will not have to provide contraceptive coverage or refer their employees to organizations that provide ,'' and ``religious organizations will not be required to subsidize the cost of .'' While the President has announced some changes in how the new preventive coverage mandate will be administered, many of the details remain unclear. A very important issue is how the rule would treat self-insured faith-based institutions. For example, there are many Catholic hospitals that are self- insured, and therefore act as both the employer and the insurer. The final rule simply states that the ``Departments intend to develop policies to achieve the same goals for self-insured group health plans sponsored by non-exempted, non-profit religious organizations with religious objections to contraceptive coverage.'' I would therefore like further specific clarification of how self-insured faith-based organizations will be treated under the rule to ensure that their rights of conscience are protected. Thank you for your prompt assistance on this important issue. Sincerely, Susan M. Collins, United States Senator.. , in these dire financial times, government must identify what works and what doesn't, even when it comes to sex education for our kids.The CDC released a fascinating study this year that found that two-thirds of teens, ages 15 to 17, are abstaining from sex. In fact, 70 percent of parents support abstinence until marriage for their teens.But under this administration, we have seen a troubling 16:1 funding disparity between contraceptive-centered education and sexual risk avoidance education.That's why last week I filed a bill, H.R. 2874, to restore fairness to the funding and direct it instead to programs which give our kids the facts about  without distorting them.I am a dad of four great kids, two of them teenagers. I have a 15-year-old daughter, Kylie, and a 17-year-old son, Karsten, who may, in fact, be watching right now. Nothing is more important to me than seeing them make responsible choices. I have every confidence that they will. Now I'm just hoping the House and Senate will do the same.. , it comes as a surprise to most Americans to learn that the largest abortion provider in America is also the largest recipient of Federal funding under Title X. It is heartbreaking news this morning the Planned Parenthood of America has now been the subject of one more undercover video showing someone posing as a pimp being facilitated by employees at Planned Parenthood in how to secure secret abortions, STD testing, and  for child prostitutes.You know, as a father of two teenage daughters, I see the video that came out this morning, I see the video that came out last week, and it is an outrage to me that employees of Planned Parenthood clinics across the country are facilitating the abuse of minor girls in this country. It should be a scandal to every American.The time has come to deny all Federal funding to Planned Parenthood of America. I have authored the Title X Abortion Provider Prohibition Act, which would deny Title X funds to Planned Parenthood or any other abortion provider, and Congress must act and act now to move this important legislation. Pro-life Americans, and all Americans, should not be forced to subsidize America's largest abortion provider or to continue to provide Federal taxpayer dollars to Title X clinics that engage in this abhorrent behavior.. , I rise this evening in recognition of the over 55 million American lives lost to abortion since the passage of Roe v. Wade 39 years ago.In President Obama's statement celebrating the anniversary of Roe v. Wade, he emphasized the principle that government should not intrude on private family matters. Ironically, on Friday, the Obama administration made an unprecedented decision to require all U.S. employers to cover the cost of , including emergency contraceptive drugs, despite the protest from faith-based institutions such as Catholic hospitals and universities. This is a violation of citizens' religious convictions. It will force the organizations to either violate their deeply held views or pay a heavy fine and terminate health insurance plans.Every human life has inherent value because he or she is made in the image of God. I will continue to fight for the right to life for America's youngest pre-born citizens and for freeing taxpayers from being forced to pay for abortions.. , institutions across the country are facing an impossible choice: Do they continue in their mission to provide for their employees, or do they violate their conscience?When the Affordable Care Act passed, there was no thought in the minds of many Catholics that the law would eventually force them into such a terrible choice. In fact, my former colleague from Pennsylvania, Kathy Dahlkemper, recently came out and said, I would have never voted for the final version of the bill if I expected the Obama administration to force Catholic hospitals and Catholic colleges and universities to pay for .I might add, this rule that will go into effect on August 12 includes not only contraceptives, but abortifacients, drugs like Ella and Plan B, as well as sterilization services.Catholic and other religious organizations have cared for the sick and educated Americans of all religions since the founding of our Republic, and they've done this because their conscience compels them to show their love to all mankind. Never before has the Federal Government compelled them to violate their conscience in such a terrible way. There are fundamental questions about life and morality that the government has no business forcing on organizations and individuals. To force them to violate their conscience is wrong.My colleagues, in recent days, Americans of every faith and political persuasion have mobilized in objection to a rule put forward by the Obama administration that constitutes an unambiguous attack on religious freedom in our country.This rule would require faith-based employers, including Catholic charities, schools, universities, and hospitals, to provide services they believe are immoral. Those services include sterilization, abortion-inducing drugs and devices, and .In imposing this requirement, the Federal Government has drifted dangerously beyond its constitutional boundaries, encroaching on religious freedom in a manner that affects millions of Americans and harms some of our Nation's most vital institutions.If the President does not reverse the Department's attack on religious freedom, then the Congress, acting on behalf of the American  and the Constitution that we are sworn to uphold and defend, must.The House will approach this matter fairly and deliberately through regular order and appropriate legislative channels. Because it has primary jurisdiction on the issues involved, the Energy and Commerce Committee is taking the lead on the legislative process that will be necessary to enact an effective and appropriate solution. Chairman Upton convened a hearing late last year and began laying the groundwork for legislative action when this flawed rule was first proposed, and I welcome his efforts to consider all possible options as his committee proceeds with its efforts.This attack by the Federal Government on religious freedom in our country must not stand and will not stand.Madam , when the Democrats passed the unconstitutional government takeover of health care, they cleverly front-loaded some of the provisions but left the most troubling mandates and requirements to be implemented at a later date.Recently, the Obama administration released its controversial  mandate, and Americans got a glance of the looming disaster that the health care law will produce once it actually goes fully into effect. This mandate is one of the first prescribed by the Democrats' government health care takeover, but it will not be the last. Unfortunately, the HHS ruling that ignores religious freedom is just one example of the many disastrous provisions of a top-down, government-controlled health care system.If Americans did not like this provision, they certainly won't like the IPAB, the Independent Payment Advisory Board, a group of 15 unelected, unaccountable bureaucrats who will control virtually every health care decision.I urge my colleagues to support commonsense legislation that will protect the rights of all human life, including the unborn, and to continue working to fully repeal the Democrats' government health care takeover as a whole, as well as the harmful individual provisions that violate our constitutional rights.. President, I thank the Senator from Missouri. I thank him also for his willingness to engage with this amendment, to put it in play here for us to debate and discuss. It is a very fundamental principle of our Constitution that is at stake, and it deserves debate, and it deserves this body putting their yea or nay on the line relative to how we are going to go forward. I commend him for his leadership, and I am pleased to join him, as well as many others, in this colloquy.This is an issue that is as old as this Nation. We are all blessed to live in this Nation and are blessed by the wisdom of our Founding Fathers, guaranteeing our rights. The very first right they guaranteed in the Constitution was the right to religious freedom. Many of the earliest settlers came here because of that right and their desire to come to a country where their religious beliefs, tenets, and principles would be respected and honored, where they would not be dictated to by a government like they lived under before they came here, but it would be protected and preserved as a basic fundamental right. It was a transformational idea at the time. Yet, now for well more than 220 years or so, it has been maintained throughout the history of this country. It stands as a bulwark against government interference with personal beliefs and government trying to dictate how we exercise the religious freedoms we are all so privileged to have.It has been said--and I want to repeat it--that the debate today is not about access to . This is not about whether it is appropriate to use . It is not about a woman's right to . As a pro-life Christian and a Protestant, I am not against , but I also believe it is a decision individuals must make in accordance with their own faith and beliefs, not a decision to be made by the Federal Government.What this is about is whether Congress is going to sit by and idly allow this administration to trample our freedom of religion--that core American principle--or whether we will stand and protect what our Founding Fathers put their lives on the line for and what millions of Americans today will defend. We cannot pick and choose when to adhere to the Constitution and when to cast it aside in order to achieve political prerogatives. We must consistently stand for our timeless constitutional principles. The debate that is taking place is a stand to protect an inalienable right, the right of conscience established in our Nation's founding days and sustained for over 200 years.I regret that this issue has been reframed for political purposes into a woman's right to choose, to deny women the opportunity to exercise their right to make a choice. That is not what this is about at all. Yet some have said it has been so successfully reframed that, politically, those who defend this as a matter of religious conscience and freedom are on the losing side of the political argument. Well, we may be or we may not be. I think it is up to this body to decide that with a thorough debate and vote that puts our yeas and nays on the line.Nevertheless, whether it is a winner or a loser politically, it is irrelevant to the argument. It should be irrelevant to the debate because this clearly is a fundamental principle of religious freedom that needs to be protected regardless of the political consequences. So those of us standing up to debate this are setting aside any kind of political risks, any advice that basically says: You don't want to touch this because it has been reframed in a way that the American  don't understand it. We are here to say that we stand to protect the liberties that are granted to us by our Constitution and, regardless of political consequences, we will continue to do that.. President, I again thank Senator Blunt and all those who are willing to address this issue and trust that our colleagues will see this as a fundamental breach of a constitutional provision provided to us by the  who sacrificed their lives to do so.I yield the floor.. President, I thank my friend for those good additions to what we are talking about.I might say, also, even if there is some accounting issue that makes this appear that maybe someone you are hiring is paying for it instead of you, if this is something you are opposed to for religious grounds, it is not about the cost; it is about the fact that this is something you do not believe you should be part of.In my particular faith, the  part of this is not troublesome for me. But it does not mean I should be less troubled that it bothers others or that I should care less about their religious freedom than I do mine or that I should not care about the government using the heavy hand of these fines to force  to do something.The other point I would like to make, before I go to my friend from Idaho, is, if the government chooses to fine ,  actually have to go to court and prove they have a deep religious belief. I do not think that would be very hard for Creighton University. The entire history of the university is founded on the principles of faith that would say: This is something we do not want to be part of. If that is the case, maybe that Justice Department would not take them to court or would not make them go to court rather than pay the fine. But they could. We are not saying that anybody can do anything they want to do. We are just creating a way that we can assert your first amendment rights if we choose to do that.As the Governor of Idaho, Senator Risch was responsible for lots of  who worked for the State of Idaho. He knows about this both from a faith perspective and an employer's perspective, and I am glad he came down to the floor.. President, I wish to talk about an amendment that has had lots of attention. It is an amendment that I offered on the floor a couple of weeks ago. We weren't able--the leader didn't want to get to it at the time, but the majority leader brought it up for me yesterday, and I am glad he did. I am glad we are able to talk about it.This is an amendment that would allow religious belief or moral conviction to be an important factor in whether  comply with new health care mandates. We have long had this exemption for hiring mandates. In fact, when I served in the House of Representatives, I had been the president of a Southern Baptist university and I understood the importance of these institutions, I thought, in maintaining their faith distinctions as part of why they provide education and health care and daycare and other things. So I have long been an advocate of the principle that the Supreme Court upheld a few weeks ago 9 to 0 that there is a difference in these faith-based institutions. Now that we have health care mandates being complied with by these institutions, all this amendment does is extend the same privilege to them and others who have a religious belief or a moral conviction so that they would be able to defend their moral conviction.We don't do anything about the mandate itself. It is important to understand that the administration--this one or any other--if the Affordable Health Care Act is still in force, can issue all the mandates that the act would allow. In fact, if a person doesn't comply with those mandates, they would have the penalties that the act would allow. But the difference is if the government wouldn't recognize a person's religious belief or moral conviction, as I think they would likely do. For example, the archdiocese in Washington, DC, is saying this is something we have long held as a tenet of our faith that we don't believe should happen, we shouldn't be a part of, and we don't want it to be a part of the insurance policies of our schools, our hospitals. My guess is if we pass this amendment, without any question, the Justice Department would say, Well, you are certainly going to be able to defend that because that has been your belief for centuries, the belief of your faith.This amendment doesn't mention any procedure of any kind. In fact, this morning we had a reporter call the office who said we can't find the word ``'' in this amendment anywhere. How is this a vote on ? Of course we were able to say, as we have said for 4 days, the word ``'' is not in there because this is not about a specific procedure, it is about a faith principle that the first amendment guarantees.This exact language of religious belief or moral conviction was first used in 1973 in the Public Health Services Act. It was brought to the Senate floor by Senator Church from Idaho, who I believe was considered one of the liberals of the Senate at the time, protecting health care providers from having to be involved in procedures they didn't agree with. It is part of the Legal Services Corporation limitation in 1974, the foreign aid funding limitation in 1986, the refusal to participate in executions or prosecutions of capital crimes in 1994, the vaccination bill wherein a person comes to this country as a nonresident and they don't want to have vaccinations that are otherwise required, they don't have to have them if they have a religious belief or moral conviction against them.The list goes on and on: The Medicare and Medicaid Counseling Act, the Federal Employees Health Benefits Plan of 1998, the  coverage for federal employees in 1999, the DC  mandate in 2000, the United States Leadership Against AIDS Act in 2003.Then this exact same language even more specifically has been in bills that weren't passed. In 1994, Senator Moynihan from New York brought a bill to the floor that s. Clinton--later Senator Clinton, now Secretary Clinton--was very involved in, this 1994 health discussion. That bill said: Nothing in this title shall be construed to prevent any employer from contributing to the purchase of a standard benefits package which excludes coverage for abortion or other services if the employer objects to such services on the basis of religious belief or moral conviction.This is Senator Moynihan less than 20 years ago in what was considered a liberal piece of legislation, putting what the country had thought since the beginning of government-paid health care was a natural part of every health care bill. In fact, the bill we are talking about that this amendment would impact is the first time the Federal Government has passed a health care bill that didn't include this language--the first time it didn't include this language. If one is not offended by the current mandate that some religions are, I think it is important to think of what one would be offended by. What in one's faith would be an offensive thing to be told one had to be a part of, and then imagine the government saying, no, a person has to be a part of that? Even if a person doesn't do it themselves, they have to pay for it, or they have to be sure that a person's employees, their associates, are a part of this thing that is offensive to that person because of religious belief or moral conviction.Before I yield to my good friend Senator Johanns, who understands this issue so well, let me also say that, as I said, we didn't eliminate a mandate, so we can still have a mandate. The Federal Government can still come in and say: You are not offering these services so you have to pay a penalty, and then you have to go to court and prove that you have a long-held belief that this is wrong. The Court, in 1965, when this particular phrase became the boilerplate language for the law, said, You can't become a conscientious objector the day you get your draft notice, in essence; you have to have these two principles. You have to have a religious belief, a strong moral conviction, and you have to be able to go to court and prove that.All of the fiction writers out there, in fundraising letters and otherwise, saying things such as women who have contraceptive services today wouldn't have them, of course that is not true. Of course that is not true. The women who have those services today either have them because they have found a way to pay for them themselves or they have an employer who is providing that as part of health care. That employer is not going to be able to turn around and say, I am not for that anymore because I object for some religious reason that I didn't have all the time I was providing it.This is an important issue. It is a first amendment issue. It is an issue that group after group after group thinks violates the Religious Freedom Act--RFRA. There are six lawsuits already. I suspect they have a good chance of prevailing because it does exactly what the religious freedom law says you can't do and it needlessly forces  to participate in activities that are against their moral principles, their religious principles.The circumstance in the country is we have 220 years of history on this. We have almost 50 years of history of government-paid health care for one group or another that always included an exemption such as this exemption. To not do this assumes that the government can make  do things that Thomas Jefferson and George Washington and others specifically said were among the rights we should defend the most vigorously; that we should hold the most dear; that we should not let a government interfere in these basic rights of conscience, a phrase of Thomas Jefferson when he wrote the New London Methodist in 1809. These rights of conscience are an area that we should not let the government get between the American  and their religious beliefs. Our laws since then, whether it is for hiring or in the case of any health care discussion, have always anticipated the protection of this first amendment right--not a specific thing but, again, if you are not offended by the things that some  are concerned about today, it is important to think about what you would be offended by, what your religious belief leads you to believe would be wrong and how you would feel if the government says now you have to be a part of that activity.I wish to turn to my good friend from Nebraska who has been a real advocate in understanding the importance of the first amendment and the role it plays in our society.I thank my colleague for putting together this hour that is so meaningful and so important not just for Democrats or Republicans but for every American, not just for  of faith but for those who have no faith. This is a First Amendment issue.I stand here tonight as a health care professional, someone who is so vitally aware of the importance of conscience and the protection of conscience rights.This HHS rule is the largest intrusion that we have ever seen from the Federal Government on our rights of conscience. Every American--every American--must understand what an insult this is to our constitutional rights.I want to just take this opportunity, . , to challenge our media as they listen to this debate, and it is a debate that really encompasses so many unlikely bedfellows, I would say, that you see liberals, conservatives, Catholics, atheists, Christians, and Jews coming together in an outrage because our First Amendment rights have been assaulted and have been attacked by this administration. But I would challenge the media to not be fooled by the red herring that this administration continues to throw out there. . , this is not about . This is not about women's health. This is not about Catholicism. This is about protecting the most fundamental right that we, as Americans, have.So many of my colleagues have mentioned about the reasons  came to this country and they continue to want to come to this country, because we ensure that you will not be persecuted for your beliefs, for your religious beliefs. That's the bedrock of the United States of America. That's why there's such outrage over this HHS rule.As my colleague from Maryland mentioned, this rule has not been changed. Do not be fooled by the smoke and mirrors of this administration. This rule remains the same. It remains an assault on our First Amendment rights. I plead with America and I plead with the media to understand what's at stake in this debate.I thank my colleague again for this opportunity.. , I'd like to start tonight by continuing our discussion on conscience protections and our First Amendment rights.As I did yesterday during the press conference on the same topic, I'd like to read the First Amendment to our Constitution. It states: ``Congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of religion, or prohibiting the free exercise thereof; or abridging the freedom of speech, or of the press; of the right of the  peaceably to assemble, and to petition the Government for a redress of grievances.'' Our Founding Fathers thought that those specific five tenets were crucial to the citizens of America--so critical that they needed to be guaranteed first and foremost.The conscience protection debate that started a few weeks ago with the administration's announcement of a new rule regarding , sterilization, and insurance policies is a perfect example of the importance of these rights.The government cannot, and should not, be forcing any employer, whether they are Catholic charities and schools or an individual businessman, to violate the tenets of their faith.As this debate continues, it highlights the great need to have a standard that explicitly protects employers from attempts to erode our First Amendment rights.We need to fight for the standard in H.R. 1179, the Respect for Rights of Conscience Act of 2011, introduced by my good friend from Nebraska, . Fortenberry.It simply protects employers from being forced to violate their religious or moral beliefs by an overreaching mandate from the administration. It takes nothing away from the public, nor does it prohibit women from getting services that are already provided, as some have alleged.H.R. 1179 is a responsible and reasonable response to clarify what can and cannot be mandated through the healthcare law regarding conscience protections.We cannot allow the federal government to start going down the slippery slope of eroding our constitutionally protected rights--we took an oath to uphold the Constitution.As a mother and grandmother, I will do everything in my power to ensure that the rights we enjoy today continue to be guaranteed for my daughter, grandchildren, and generations to come.. President, I come to the floor to offer amendments to this bill. Let me assure our colleague from Illinois that they are not amendments about  or any other unrelated issue. They are energy amendments, which go directly to one of the greatest challenges all of our constituents, fellow citizens, face, which is the ever-rising price at the pump.I am glad we are on this Menendez bill, because at least it puts us on that major challenge that faces Louisiana's lower to middle-class families, and those families in Illinois, and all around the country. I bring amendments that are directly relevant to that.The first amendment has to do with supply. First of all, let me say why I oppose the Menendez bill. It is because when we tax something at a higher level, when we increase the tax on it, we get less of it. So it will produce less energy, in particular less U.S. domestic energy. When we lower supply, we increase the price. It is not only not going to have a positive impact on the price at the pump, it will increase the price and have a negative impact.I take the opposite approach. We need to increase supply, starting with activity and supply right here at home in the United States. So my amendment, offered along with Senator Murkowski of Alaska, No. 1965, would do that. It would replace President Obama's current 5-year plan for Outer Continental Shelf leasing with basically the plan that existed previously, which is double President Obama's plan.So President Obama's plan, which he put in place after coming into office, is about half of the previous plan. It backs us up and turns us around, moving us in the wrong direction. Amendment No. 1965 would turn us back, move us in the right direction, and adopt pretty much that previous plan--to expand our access to our own U.S. energy resources offshore.So, . President, with that said, I ask unanimous consent that when the Senate returns to consideration of S. 2204, the pending energy tax bill, it be in order for me to offer amendment No. 1965, which I have authored along with Senator Murkowski.. , today the Obama Administration is following through on their HHS mandate that violates religious freedom as today begins the date where the rule goes into effect. 24 separate lawsuits across the country have been filed representing 76 plaintiffs.On Friday, a Carter-appointed judge in Denver provided a preliminary injunction against the HHS mandate to the Newland family, the Catholic owners of a HVAC company in Colorado. This case, led by Alliance Defending Freedom, is a welcomed initial victory for religious freedom. We will need the courts or the Congress to reverse this tragic disregard for American's First Amendment right to freedom of religion without government interference.Protecting the First Amendment has to be our First priority. The first words of the First Amendment read: ``Congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of religion, or prohibiting the free exercise thereof. . . .''What happened to the promise that ``if you like the health care you have you can keep it?''The radical mandate makes it so religious-based institutions are forced to defy a Higher Order at the will of a Goverment Order. Religious liberty is a sacred and fundamental right. It's central to who we are as a country, a country founded by  who fled Europe for their religious beliefs.If President Obama does not reverse his administration's attack on religious freedom, Congress, led by the People's House, will do it for him.People who go to church on Sunday and who put money in an offering plate shouldn't have to worry that their donations will go to pay for things that they don't believe in their hearts to be good.The House is going to address this matter fairly and deliberately, through the appropriate legislative channels in the House Energy & Commerce Committee.The rule announced by the Obama Administration's Department of Health & Human Services would require faith-based employers--including Catholic charities, schools, universities, and hospitals--to provide services they consider immoral. Those services include sterilization, abortion-inducing drugs and devices, and  (FDA approved items).The effect is government crowding out religious-based institutions. Government is using raw political force to impose a government view on society where religious institutions are not welcome to serve or practice their faith freely. It is government forcing private and religious institutions off the public square. They're forcing resources off the table that serve the public good. Since when was that a good idea?. , once again we are reminded why we need to repeal the President's Affordable Care Act, which most Americans know as ObamaCare. . , a majority of Americans already understand how harmful ObamaCare will be to American health care, especially to the millions of seniors on Medicare who will have that program cut by $500 billion if we don't repeal it.But 2 weeks ago, the latest administration rule implementing ObamaCare was announced by the Secretary of Health, and that rule would impose the latest mandate, this time, a mandate on all religious institutions to provide government-mandated coverage for drugs and surgery that is contrary to the beliefs of those religions.The greatest uproar was from the Catholic Church over the rule that would force Catholic institutions to pay the full cost of all government-mandated drugs and procedures, and that would include sterilization and abortion-causing drugs. That mandate would put those institutions in the position of either paying the full cost of those drugs and procedures that violate their beliefs or paying a government fine. I repeat: It would end up being a government-imposed fine to practice your religious beliefs, with the administration using the broad mandates of ObamaCare to impose those fines.But the religious intimidation by the administration didn't stop there. When the Archbishop for the Military Services, Timothy Broglio, wrote a letter about this new mandate to his diocese to be read at Sunday services, the U.S. Army Chief of Chaplains, a recent Obama appointee, ordered his chaplain corps not to read the letter at those Sunday services. . , you know that those services are attended not only by the military, but by family and DOD employees. And this order was a clear violation of the First Amendment guarantees not only of the freedom of religion but the freedom of speech.Let me read from the letter, and you will see why the administration was so concerned:Dear Brothers and Sisters in Christ: It is imperative that I call to your attention an alarming and serious matter that negatively impacts the church in the United States directly and that strikes at the fundamental right to religious liberty for all citizens of any faith. The Federal Government, which claims to be `of, by, and for the ,' has just dealt a heavy blow to almost a quarter of those --the Catholic population--and to the millions more who are served by the Catholic faithful. It is a blow to a freedom that you have fought to defend and for which you have seen your buddies fall in battle. The U.S. Department of Health and Human Services announced that almost all employers, including Catholic employers, will be forced to offer their employees health coverage that includes sterilization, abortion-inducing drugs, and . Almost all health insurers will be forced to include those immoral `services' in the health policies they write. And almost all individuals will be forced to buy that coverage as part of their policies. In so ruling, the administration has cast aside the First Amendment to the Constitution of the United States, denying to Catholics our Nation's first and most fundamental freedom, that of religious liberty. And as a result, unless the rule is overturned, we Catholics will be compelled to choose between violating our consciences or dropping health coverage for our employees. We cannot--we will not--comply with this unjust law. People of faith cannot be made second-class citizens. We are already joined by our brothers and sisters of all faiths and many others of good will in this important effort to regain our religious freedom. Our parents and grandparents did not come to these shores to help build America's cities and towns, its infrastructure and institutions, its enterprise and culture, only to have their posterity stripped of their God-given rights.. , after protest, the Chief of Chaplains finally allowed most of the letter to be read, but ordered that the line ``We cannot--we will not--comply with this law'' still not be read.. , now you can see why The Wall Street Journal--not usually a paper that comments on religious matters--found this issue so compelling that today's lead editorial deals with this under the headline, ``ObamaCare's Great Awakening,'' with a highlight line, ``HHS tells religious believers to go to hell. The public notices.'' Yes, . , the public noticed.Let me just read the opening of that editorial:The political furor over President Obama's birth control mandate continues to grow, even among those for whom  poses no moral qualms, and one needn't be a theologian to understand why. The country is being exposed to the raw political control that is the core of the Obama health care plan, and Americans are seeing clearly for the first time how this will violate pluralism and liberty.. , in the last few days, a strategist in the President's campaign--not the Secretary herself or an administration official--has suggested that, well, maybe something can be done. Really, . ? Are we leaving dealing with First Amendment rights violations to campaign staff for resolution?This latest controversy has given us yet another reason to repeal ObamaCare, a bill forced on America by the last Congress and this administration. Given the obvious willingness of regulators to force their value system on all Americans regardless of religious belief, the editorial comes to the right conclusion: ``Religious liberty won't be protected . . . until ObamaCare is repealed.'' . , the time for repeal is now.. President, I want to express my gratitude to the Senator from Missouri for his leadership on this issue.This used to be a topic that was a bipartisan issue dating back to the passage of the Religious Freedom Restoration Act of 1993.But just so  can refresh their memories, there have been a number of allusions made to the language of the Constitution. But let me just read the first amendment to the Constitution, part of our Bill of Rights, the fundamental law of the land that cannot be abridged or changed by a mere act of Congress, which is what we are concerned about; that the President's health care bill, the Affordable Care Act, so-called, purports to change the Constitution, which it cannot do. When there is a conflict between the Constitution and a law passed by Congress, that law falls as unconstitutional.But the first amendment to the Constitution says:Congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of religion, or prohibiting the free exercise thereof . . .Let me repeat that:Congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of religion or prohibiting the free exercise thereof . . .That is what we are talking about is the free exercise of religion. I agree with Senator Risch that one of the biggest problems with this legislation, the President's health care bill, the so-called affordable care act, which we have came to learn is not so affordable, is that it forces each individual in this country to buy a government-approved product according to the dictates of Congress. That is one of the issues the Supreme Court will be ruling on, whether that is even within the scope of congressional power under the commerce clause.But Senator Risch makes a very good point; that is, the basic problem with this legislation generally is it is too big, it is too expensive, and it is too intrusive on the individual choices and freedoms of American citizens.As I said, it used to be that religious freedom was a bipartisan issue. That is why I am so concerned this has turned into a purely partisan issue. It is very obvious to me that some of our colleagues on the floor believe they can make political hay by scaring , by misleading ; that this is somehow about denying women access to  when that is not the issue.This is about protecting our sacred constitutional freedoms. When I said religious freedom used to be a bipartisan issue, I was referring to the Religious Freedom Restoration Act of 1993. I think it is interesting to see who the sponsors were and  who were some of the principal proponents of the bill. That demonstrates it was bipartisan.The lead sponsor in the House was Senator Chuck Schumer, now a Member of the Senate. Cosponsors included then-Representative Maria Cantwell, now in the Senate; then-Representative Ben Cardin, who is presiding today; and former  Nancy Pelosi.In the Senate it had 60 cosponsors. Ted Kennedy was the lead sponsor. We have heard Senator Brown from Massachusetts saying the position he is taking on this issue of religious freedom is exactly the same position Senator Kennedy took during his lifetime. But 60 other Members of the Senate cosponsored this, including Senator Boxer, Senator Feinstein, Senator Kerry, Senator Lautenberg, Senator Leahy, Senator Levin, Senator Murray, and Senator Reid, the majority leader of the Senate today.It was signed into law by then-President Clinton, demonstrating that religious freedom was not a partisan issue, it was a bipartisan concern of Congress and the reason why this bipartisan legislation passed to protect religious freedom.So similar to members of the Catholic Church who are concerned about being forced to provide coverage for surgical sterilization or drugs that induce abortions or other forms of , members of the Muslim faith, if they are a woman, need not be concerned about restrictions on their ability or desire to wear a head scarf in public or in government buildings or dietary rules practiced by observant Jews or that Christians would not be somehow interfered with when it came to wearing religious symbols such as crosses or rosaries. This is not about those rules or those items of clothing or religious symbols, this is about religious freedom, over which Congress shall pass no law, under the words of our Constitution.I am somewhat disappointed we now find ourselves--that the lines seem to have been drawn so sharply in a partisan way on an issue that used to enjoy such broad bipartisan support. It is my hope our colleagues will reconsider because it is not good for the country, it is not good for our Constitution, it is not good for the preservation of our liberties, for the very fundamental law of our land, the Bill of Rights, to become a partisan issue.But if there is a fight, if there is a disagreement, I believe it is our responsibility to speak in defense of religious freedom and to remind our colleagues that Congress shall pass no law restricting religious freedom. That is what we are talking about.I thank my colleague from Missouri for being the leader on this important amendment. I am pleased to have had the opportunity to voice the reasons for my support, and I hope our colleagues who are opposed to the amendment or have already publicly stated their opposition will reconsider.. President, I rise in strong, passionate support of the Blunt amendment. It is a very important amendment which we will be voting on as an entire Senate at 11 a.m. this morning.The Blunt amendment is an absolutely necessary measure to fix what is a very egregious overstepping of the bounds of government in terms of the newly articulated ObamaCare mandate on religion. As we all know through the debate and discussion of the last several weeks, the Obama administration has made it clear that everyone, including persons of faith, including religious institutions, are not only going to be forced to buy a product in the marketplace--and many of us think that itself is unprecedented and unconstitutional--but it gets worse because they will be forced to buy a product in the marketplace that violates their conscience, that violates their core beliefs.Catholics and many other Christians, many  of faith, do not believe in certain activity and treatment that is mandated now to be covered by this mandatory insurance. That is crossing a line we have never before crossed in this country, in terms of government power, government mandates, and government intrusion into the conscience of others and to the free exercise of religion. We absolutely need to fix this.This is a fundamental conscience issue. This is a freedom of religion issue. That is exactly why it is so important.Let me also clarify, this is not merely about . Folks on the other side of the debate and most of the media constantly put it merely in those terms. First of all, those measures in and of themselves violate the conscience of many Americans. But, second, it is not just about that, it is about abortion, it is about abortion-inducing drugs such as Plan B, it is about sterilization. Clearly, the government mandating Americans to buy, to pay for, to subsidize these measures violates the conscience of tens and tens of millions of Americans. That is why we must act, hopefully today, starting today, by passing the Blunt amendment.The arguments made on the other side, when we look at them carefully, do not hold water. First of all, there is President Obama's so-called accommodation, so-called compromise, which is not an accommodation and is not a meaningful compromise at all. What did he say? He said: OK. We are not going to make Americans, persons of faith, religious institutions buy coverage they have moral qualms with. We are merely going to make the insurance provider provide that coverage whether the customer wants it or not. Well, that is a completely superficial and completely meaningless word game. The insurer is providing this how? What payment is supporting it? The only payment the insurer is getting is from a customer who objects to the coverage. So who is supporting it? Who is paying for it? Clearly this is a word game. If it weren't clear enough for the typical person or institution involved, what about institutions--and there are many of them--which are self-insured? What about the University of Notre Dame, Catholic University, or Catholic institutions? They don't go to an insurance company to buy insurance; they are self-insured. That word game doesn't even work on the surface there. Those cases number in the hundreds or thousands around the country, and that is a clear example of how that so-called compromise or accommodation is merely a sleight of hand and a word game.Another argument which the other side has made in this debate is that somehow correcting this situation through the Blunt amendment or through similar measures will shut down access to these services. That is patently not true. These services, these medicines, and other treatments are widely available in every community across the country at little cost or no cost for folks who cannot afford it, and that is not going to change. It is absolutely not necessary to tear away religious liberty and violate conscience rights of millions of Americans with that argument in mind. It isn't true.That is why respected religious leaders, such as Cardinal-designate Timothy Dolan, president of the U.S. Conference of Catholic Bishops, has argued strenuously and passionately against this mandate. Cardinal-designate Dolan said:Never before has the Federal Government forced individuals and organizations to go out into the marketplace and buy a product that violates their conscience. This shouldn't happen in a land where free exercise of religion ranks first in the Bill of Rights.And so that is what it comes down to, free exercise of religion and fundamental conscience protection. The first amendment to the Constitution, the first item in the Bill of Rights, it doesn't get much headier or more significant than that, and that is what this is all about. Again, it is all about, yes, , but abortion, abortion-inducing pills like Plan B, and sterilization.. President, please assure me that the free exercise of religion is not now a partisan issue. Please assure me that we are going to correct this situation and not allow this egregious overstepping of the bounds of the power of government. We must act to stop this grave injustice, and I hope we start that process in a very serious way today by voting positively and passing the Blunt amendment.I yield the floor.As we all know, . , last week was the March for Life here in Washington. Now, as a father of 10, life is a big issue in my house. It's a big issue in other homes and businesses throughout the United States. Thousands of Americans, including some residents of my district, traveled from all corners of the country last week to express their support for the right to life for each human being, to express the desire and passion they have for the born and the unborn.Just a couple of days later, on Sunday morning, once we had all returned to Illinois, my family and I headed off to church, as we normally do. We sat in the pew and listened to the priest's homily. He read us a letter written by the Bishop of the Diocese of Peoria:``In the history of the United States, Friday, January 20, 2012, will certainly stand out as a moment of enormous peril for religious liberty,'' the letter reads, referring to the date the Department of Health and Human Services announced that religious organizations will be forced to provide employees with insurance programs that provide abortifacients, contraceptive services, and sterilization.The letter continues:``If these regulations are put into effect, they could close down every Catholic school, hospital, and other public ministries of our church, which is perhaps their underlying intention. What is perfectly clear is that this is a bigoted and blatant attack on the First Amendment rights of every Catholic believer. Under no circumstances, however, will our church ever abandon our unshakable commitment to the gospel of life.''I later learned that this was one of more than 120 letters that bishops had read from the pulpit at masses across the United States.The letter written by the Bishop of Marquette reads:``The Federal Government, which claims to be `of, by, and for the ,' has just dealt a heavy blow to almost a quarter of those --the Catholic population--and to the millions more who are served by the Catholic faithful.''It later says:``Our parents and grandparents did not come to these shores to help build America's cities and towns, its infrastructure and institutions, its enterprise and culture only to have their posterity stripped of their God-given rights.'' Like many of my Catholic brothers and sisters, I do not believe it is the government's business to target religion and require that its believers violate their conscience and their religious beliefs--or suffer the consequences. I do not believe it is the role of government to persecute religions.I am proudly and passionately pro-life. But regardless of what your views may be on abortion or , I imagine most Americans would be alarmed to learn of our government chipping away at the First Amendment, mandating its citizens disregard their liberty, convictions, and conscience--or else. This is totally unacceptable. No government should force its citizens to violate their religious beliefs.I recently joined with a number of my colleagues in urging that the administration reconsider this unprecedented government overreach and violation. But I would go further and encourage the administration to abandon this rule. Abandon this rule and continue to allow these Americans who oppose these services for either moral or religious reasons to live their lives in the way that they see fit and without the fear of punishment.Bishop Jenky of the Diocese of Peoria concludes his letter by saying:``This country once fought a revolution to guarantee the freedom, but the time has clearly arrived to strongly assert our fundamental human rights.''Our religious freedoms are under attack. I was sent here to uphold, protect, and defend the United States Constitution, and I intend to do so.I thank the gentleman for yielding, and I thank the gentleman for holding this Special Order tonight.. , as a young man, I swore an oath to protect and uphold the Constitution of the United States when I was sworn into the United States military. Literally, millions of young men and women have sworn that oath, shed blood, precious blood, to protect the individual liberties and freedoms that we take for granted in this Nation. And now, no longer, due to the actions of this President, can we take those for granted.I want to associate my remarks tonight with my colleagues who've so eloquently spoken. Once again, it tells us why government should be out of these individual decisions that we make. We passed almost 2 years ago, and . Lungren remembers this very well, on this House floor we debated this health care bill that now mandates not only what we should buy, an essential benefits package, but what's in it and how it's administered. How ridiculous that is. Individuals have that right and should maintain that right and that freedom to do that.Our government was established to protect rights of conscience for all Americans, not just some Americans, but all Americans. Neither the HHS nor any other government Department should have the power to force  to violate their conscience. Since 1973, health care and coverage providers--and I am a physician, I am an obstetrician and gynecologist--were granted protections in the law to follow their conscience. This rule that was passed and will be the law of the land cancels those protections. Cancels those protections.This HHS rule will force individuals and organizations to violate deeply held moral convictions with no opportunity to opt out, no opportunity to opt out. Protection of the rights of conscience is a fundamental American principle, a fundamental liberty, not a marginal consideration to be subordinated or ignored because of Federal mandates. It's guaranteed in this book right here, the Constitution. The freedom of religion is the first one mentioned in the First Amendment of the Bill of Rights.The HHS rule gives  and me, a provider, an impossible choice: either break the law, or violate your beliefs. This rule is causing buyer's remorse in someone who previously supported the health care reform bill.Former Representative Kathy Dahlkemper recently said:I would never have voted for the final version of the bill if I expected the Obama administration to force Catholic hospitals and Catholic colleges and universities to pay for .Christians cannot distinguish between purely religious activities and provisions of health care. Because of this rule and because of this President, many may have no choice but to stop providing coverage for their employees. And providers like myself and others with conscience clauses may have to stop providing care.This is not a choice that any of us should have to make. It's a freedom guaranteed by over 200 years of bloodshed for this Nation.. , the American  cannot stand by and let this happen.I appreciate very much the gentleman holding this Special Order tonight.LUNGREN of California. I thank the gentleman for his remarks.. , it is my privilege to share the last 9 minutes with the gentleman from New Jersey, the man I call the William Wilberforce of this Congress, . Chris Smith.I thank my great friend from California for his leadership, former Attorney General of California, one of the most decisive and wonderful debaters in the House of Representatives and a great champion of life.. , President Obama's slick public relations offensive this past Friday contained neither an accommodation nor a compromise, nor a change in his coercion rule. It was, instead, a pernicious attack on religious freedom.The Obama final rule promulgated on Friday is an unprecedented government attack on the conscience rights of religious entities and anyone else, and I repeat that, anyone else who, for moral reasons, cannot and will not pay for abortion-inducing drugs, such as ella, or  and sterilization procedures in their private insurance plans.. Obama is arrogantly using the coercive power of the state to force faith-based charities, hospitals and schools to conform to his will at the expense of conscience.. Obama's means of coercing compliance, ruinous fines of $2,000 per employee when faith-based organizations refuse to comply, and they will refuse to comply, will impose incalculable harm on millions of children educated in faith-based schools. It will also impose harm on the poor, sick, disabled, and frail elderly who are served with such extraordinary compassion and dignity by faith-based entities.For example, Catholic Charities employs 70,000 employees. They will be hit with a fine by the Obama administration of $140 million per year. That's the fine. That's the penalty: $2,000 per employee.Notre Dame has about 5,000 employees. That will be a $10 million fine on Notre Dame. And so it goes for those faith-based organizations.Let me just say to my colleagues that vocal apologists of the Obama coercion rule say over and over again that the IOM, the Institute of Medicine, panel that reportedly researched and did recommend the coercion rule was somehow independent. Nothing could be further from the truth.Journalist Kathryn Jean Lopez reported that the Human Life International organization looked into the members of the panel. You stack the panel, you get a predetermined outcome. They found that it was packed with pro-abortion activists.For example, member Claire Brindis, member of the organization of NARAL Pro-Choice America; Angela Diaz, member of Physicians for Reproductive Choice and Health; Paula Johnson, chairwoman of Planned Parenthood League of Massachusetts; Magda Peck, also on the board of directors, or was, of Planned Parenthood of Nebraska and Council Bluffs. She was chair of the board as well as vice chair. If you just stack an IOM or any other panel, you will get a predetermined outcome, and so they did.. , finally, the Respect for Rights of Conscience Act reasserts and restores conscience rights by making absolutely clear that no one can be compelled to subsidize so-called services in private insurance plans contrary to their religious beliefs or moral convictions. This legislation must be on the floor soon, and I hope the American  will realize how important this bill offered by . Fortenberry is to conscience rights in America.I thank my good friend for yielding.. , for more than 100 years the Catholic Press Association of the United States has provided news, information, and commentary on an ongoing basis to millions of readers. The CPA's bylaws make clear its commitment to help its members to ``serve effectively, through the medium of the printed word, the social, intellectual and spiritual needs of the entire human family, and to spread and support the Kingdom of God.'' Hundreds of Catholic publications benefit from the CPA, including my local paper, the Catholic Telegraph, which has published since 1831 and is read by 60,000 subscribers throughout the Cincinnati archdiocese.Today I rise to join the association's celebration of February as Catholic Press Month. I would also note the timeliness of Catholic Press Month and its immediate relevance to some of the important debates taking place in Washington, DC. As CPA President Greg Erlandson noted in his statement, ``This year Catholic Press Month comes at a particularly critical moment. Our bishops have made clear their concern with recent government regulations and the threat such regulations pose to religious liberty. It is during challenging times like these that we can best recognize the great blessing that is the Catholic press.''As has been well documented of late, a new mandate advanced by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services under President Obama's administration would require faith-based employers, individuals, and insurers--including Catholic charities, schools, universities, and hospitals--to provide services they believe are immoral. Those services include sterilization, abortion-inducing drugs and devices, and . The mandate is being implemented as a result of the health care law signed by President Obama in 2010.In a January 26 letter about this mandate to the Catholic Telegraph, the Archbishop of Cincinnati, the Most Reverend Dennis Schnurr, expressed the frustration of many Ohio Catholics when he declared: ``We cannot--we will not--comply with this unjust law. People of faith cannot be made second-class citizens.'' In a subsequent letter on February 13, after President Obama announced what was called an accommodation, Cardinal Schnurr reiterated the Church's ``firm position that the freedom to follow one's conscience and to have access to health care are both fundamental human rights. We will not be forced into a position of choosing between the two.''In imposing this mandate, the federal government has drifted dangerously beyond its constitutional boundaries, encroaching on religious liberty in a manner that affects millions of Americans and harms some of our nation's most vital institutions. The Catholic Press Association has played a critical role in providing news about this issue to millions of readers throughout our country, in just the most recent demonstration of the service it provides to the Church as well as to our nation, its citizens, and the Constitution upon which our system of government is founded.As President Erlandson put it, ``Only the Catholic press gives Catholic leaders a voice with which to be heard by their --unmuted, uncensored and independent of the preconceptions and prejudices of too many secular media outlets.'' I congratulate the Catholic Press Association for the century of contributions it has made and will continue to make through the blessings of liberty in our great country.. President, there is an old political axiom that is attributed to Thomas Jefferson, more recently to Gerald Ford, that says: A government that is big enough to give you everything you want is also big enough to take it all away.Those words took on a whole new meaning this last week when we found out the Secretary of the Health and Human Services Department, Kathleen Sebelius, was issuing new regulations with regard to the health care act that passed last year that would apply to religious-affiliated universities, charities, and hospitals.I think we have to remember exactly why it was that many of our forefathers came to this country in the first place. They came, in many cases, because they were trying to get away from religious persecution in their homelands. So they came to the United States with the desire to start anew and to assert that in this new government they formed that they would protect freedoms, basic freedoms, such as religious liberty.So in the Declaration of Independence they said:We hold these truths to be self-evident, that all men are created equal, that they are endowed by their Creator with certain unalienable Rights, that among these are [the rights to] Life, Liberty, and the pursuit of Happiness.--[In order] to secure these rights, Governments are instituted among Men, So that was a foundational principle of our democracy, and it was enshrined, when they wrote the Constitution, in the first amendment of the Bill of Rights, when they said:Congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of religion, or prohibiting the free exercise thereof. . . .It was the very first right they enshrined in the Bill of Rights in the Constitution of the United States. That was the weight they attached to the important issue of religious liberty, and it was consistent with the statement in the Declaration of Independence, where it says that those rights are endowed by our Creator. They are not given to us by a State. They are not given to us by government. They are something that is endowed by our Creator. The government is here to protect those rights.So when this issue popped up on many 's radar screen--and, of course, it has been percolating out there for quite a while, but there had been an opportunity to weigh in and to provide comments, with the hope that the Department of Health and Human Services would come to the right conclusion and exempt religious-affiliated schools, hospitals, and charities--when that was not going to be the case and they were going to require these very organizations to do something that violated their consciences and violated the teachings and the practices of their faith, many  across this country--we have all heard from them--got very engaged on this issue.It seems to me, at least, there is a very simple answer to this; that is, the administration could go back and revisit this issue and more broadly make this exemption not just for churches--which is where it is today--but also for church schools, church hospitals, church universities.It was interesting, Tuesday morning the minority leader in the Senate, Senator McConnell, was out here talking about this issue, and he mentioned:One out of six patients in America is treated at a Catholic hospital. Catholic Charities is the largest private provider of social services to poor children, families, and individuals in America. The Catholic Church runs the largest network of private schools in the country.He goes on to say:These institutions have thrived because they have been allowed to freely pursue their religious convictions in a country that, until now, respected their constitutional right to do so.He went on to say in that statement:If the rights of some are not protected, the rights of all are in danger.I think what has many of the churches across this country and many of the universities and many of the hospitals concerned about is that this is going to become a finalized regulation.The proponents of the regulation are saying there is a year to comply with it. I would submit to you that asking  in this country to check their principles at the door not now but a year from now is not making any kind of an accommodation.This needs to be reversed. This is clearly a violation of religious liberty, the protection and right we have in the first amendment of our Constitution in our Bill of Rights, and I hope the administration will do the right thing and acknowledge that they have made a mistake, that they have gone too far, that they have overreached, that they have treaded in an area they should not tread and make this right. The way to make this right is to reverse this decision.Some have argued: What is that going to mean? Does that mean  in this country are not going to have access to contraceptive services? The answer to that is absolutely not.  would be widely available. It is just that religious-affiliated employers would not be forced to fund this coverage which violates the tenants of their faith. It does not have anything to do with . It does not have anything to do with that issue at all. What it has to do with is the issue of religious liberty and whether we are going to respect that or are we going to allow that to be eroded, and who knows where this goes next.The other point I would make is, this is also, I think, an example of what happens when you get a government that is so big it can give you everything you want but also big enough to take it all away. There are a lot of  who, when this was debated, when the affordable care act was debated, argued--myself included--this would lead to government running more of our lives, making more decisions, intruding more, having more control, and making decisions with regard to 's health care.I would submit this is an example--and perhaps example No. 1--of that very fact. What we are seeing now is, the affordable care act--as it gets implemented, we are giving more and more power to the Federal Government, and when we do that, when big government gets bigger and bigger, it has more latitude when it comes to running over the rights of ordinary Americans. This is a perfect example of that.I could go down the list of other regulations. I have come down to the floor many times to talk about regulatory overreach, excessive regulations that go way beyond common sense, that do not deal with issues of public health and safety but are simply regulations for regulation's sake.People have heard me come down and talk about the Department of Labor's efforts now to regulate the young  who work on family farms and ranches and the overly proscriptive way in which they are trying to keep young  from performing duties they learned growing up that they are trained to do, that contribute to the overall success and prosperity of family farms and ranches.The Department of Labor's proposal right now would restrict young  from working at elevations that are more than 6 feet, from working with farm animals that are more than 6 months old, from working around grain elevators or stockyards or operating certain kinds of equipment, many pieces of equipment, types of equipment that are fairly standard on a farming operation. It strikes at the very heart of what makes a family farm and ranch operation tick. It is an assault on the heartland of this country and the culture and values that have helped shape it and make it great.So this issue of regulatory overreach and big government is an issue that I think is symbolized by this current debate. What we are having is a debate about the reach of government to where they can start coming up with regulations under the new health care law that clearly violate the religious liberty protections that are afforded for  in this country under the first amendment and which I think our Founders, if they were around today, would find incredibly offensive.This is an affront, an assault on these very liberties. It is an assault on our Bill of Rights, our Constitution. It is something the administration should walk back from and make right. They can do that very simply by reversing this or widening or broadening this exemption to cover religious-affiliated schools, universities and charities. And they could do that right now.I would hope that would be the case. If it is not, there is legislation that has been proposed here. A number of my colleagues have already filed bills. In fact, Senator Blunt was down here earlier today and asked to call up an amendment that would address this issue. It was objected to on the grounds that it is not related to the underlying bill, the highway bill. Well, if it is not related to the highway bill, then let's provide an opportunity for Congress to weigh in on this. I can tell you one thing, the American  are weighing in on this. This Congress of the United States, as their representatives, needs to stand for the American  and, more importantly, needs to defend the Constitution of the United States. If the administration is going to take this step, and if the administration is not going to walk back from this, this Congress of the United States needs to be heard.There will be numerous attempts until that opportunity is presented by my colleagues and me to make sure this wrong is fixed, is corrected, and that the religious liberties for which our Founders came to this country and for which so many have fought and died over the years to defend are protected, and those rights that are enshrined in our Declaration of Independence and our Constitution and our Bill of Rights are protected for the American .I yield the floor.. President, earlier today, we were treated to some very partisan remarks from one of my colleagues on the preventive services mandate. That is the legal term. Here is what the mandate is in practice.It is a mandate that will require religious individuals and institutions to purchase abortion-inducing drugs for their employees. It will require that they purchase insurance coverage that provides for sterilizations and the morning-after pill. In doing so, it will require that they violate their most deeply held religious beliefs, in stark contrast to the first amendment's guarantee of religious liberty.You would not know that from hearing some on the other side talk. You would think that opposition to this mandate was grounded in bigotry and a lack of concern for our fellow citizens.This is a serious charge--one deserving of a response. My colleague from California suggested earlier today that the reason Republicans are opposed to this mandate--and the reason tens of millions of Americans are opposed to this mandate--is because they are antiwoman.With due respect, one would be hard pressed to concoct a more insidious and misleading explanation of the opposition to this mandate.People are opposed to this mandate for one simple reason--because they are in favor of religious liberty. They are opposed to it because it is an affront to our constitutional government, to the first right listed in our first amendment--the right to free exercise of religion.We would not know that from my colleague's remarks. She did not even mention the Constitution--not once.As Members of the Senate, we take an oath to support and defend the Constitution. But to hear members of the administration and some Members of Congress talk, it is clear to me that providing abortion-inducing drugs, sterilizations, and the morning-after pill to women is more important than the first amendment we are sworn to the Nation and our constituents to defend.I do not shock easily, but the cavalier attitude of the President, his administration, and many in Congress to this frontal assault on religious liberty is truly shocking.There was a time when both parties, liberals and conservatives, could come together on the matter of religious liberty--but not any longer, apparently.I think it is because for many liberals, religion and the right to practice it freely are not the foundation of our Nation's liberties; rather, they are viewed as a threat to our Nation's liberties. They do not understand religious . I guess we should have seen this coming when the President ran for the White House in 2008, and he referred pejoratively to these American who cling to their Bibles.But the fact is, it was  who clung to their Bibles who were at the forefront of some of our Nation's greatest civil rights struggles and have been most committed to advancing the cause of personal liberty. They are at the forefront today serving as a solemn witness of the importance of religious liberty, threatening civil disobedience against the President's unconstitutional abortion mandate that would force them to violate their most cherished moral beliefs.Instead of treating these powerful witnesses to our founding ideals with the respect they deserve, they are looked at with contempt. This morning, one of my colleagues referred to a panel testifying about this assault on religious liberty as full of ``dudes.''Her suggestion was that the all-male composition of this panel somehow serves as proof that the objection to this abortion mandate is due to hostility to women. Give me a break. Let me tell you who these so called ``dudes'' were: the Roman Catholic Bishop of Bridgeport, CT; the president of the Lutheran Church, Missouri Synod; the Graves Professor of Moral Philosophy at Union University; the director of the Straus Center for Torah and Western Thought at Yeshiva University, and the chair of the Ethics Department at Southwestern Baptist Theological Seminary.These men, whom my colleague refers to as ``dudes,'' came to Congress to testify about the grave impact this Obamacare rule poses to religious freedom. My colleague from California does not mention these other names because they are inconvenient. She does not mention Margaret Brining, Mary Keys, and Nicole Garnett of the University of Notre Dame. She does not mention Harvard's Mary Ann Glendon or the University of Chicago's Jean Bethke Elshtain or Maria Garlock of Princeton University.She does not mention Helen Alvare of George Mason University or Maria Aguirre of the Catholic University of America. She does not mention the Mother Superior of the Sisters for Life.All of these women signed a letter, along with hundreds of other scholars and clergy, stating the obvious truth--that the President's so-called compromise is unacceptable.Are they all antiwomen too?These thoughtful citizens, scholars, and religious  deserve our attention not our ridicule. Here is the bottom line: Obamacare is an unconstitutional abomination. It is unconstitutional to its core. The individual mandate is obviously unconstitutional, and the Supreme Court will rule on that soon enough.But what this episode shows is that Obamacare is unconstitutional in its very DNA. It transfers power over one-sixth of the American economy to the Federal Government, and the government has proven with this episode that individual liberty is threatened by that transfer of power.If the administration cannot be relied on to protect even religious liberty, the right of persons and churches and synagogues to practice their faith without interference from the State, then nobody is safe. If they are willing to trammel on the first amendment, they are willing to trammel on anything. That is the story.The story is that earlier this week, Secretary Sebelius acknowledged to me and to the Finance Committee that she never consulted the Roman Catholic bishops before announcing the politically driven compromise that they would be forced to comply with.The story is that Secretary Sebelius admitted that she never requested any first amendment analysis of this rule from the Department of Justice. The administration has clearly decided this is a political loser for them, so they are trying to change the subject. They send out their surrogates with talking points designed to scare the public into thinking this fight is about . It is not, and the American  will not be fooled. They will not be tricked into thinking that those who oppose this mandate are antiwoman.Do those who are promoting this spin think we do not have mothers, wives, and daughters? Do they think the women in the Senate and the House representing millions of more women are antiwomen? This is beyond absurd, and the American  will not be duped.They know this rule exists because the administration is beholden to the pro-abortion lobby. And I can tell you, there is one group that the modern Democratic Party will never cross, never. They will never cross the abortion lobby. So it is no surprise that the Nation's largest abortion provider, Planned Parenthood, came out in support of the so-called compromise.The Catholic Church and millions of Americans, however, responded that this is unacceptable. I agree with their assessment. The so-called compromise is nothing of the sort. But as bad as this mandate is, keep in mind it is only the beginning. It is only the first step in a fresh assault on the constitutional liberties of the American . Believe me, the tragedy of Obamacare is only beginning.The other day, former  Pelosi suggested that even the Roman Catholic Church itself should have to provide abortion-inducing drugs to their employees. Catholic bishops would be forced, in her regime, to subsidize practices that the Church finds morally abhorrent. That is where this is going. The administration might feel cowed into providing a weak exception to their rule for religious institutions right now, but in the long run we know where they want to go. And the resulting loss of liberty would be bad for men and women alike.Our Constitution protects all of us. By undermining religious liberty, this administration goes down a very dangerous path. In so doing, the officers responsible for this decision, if they knew of the serious constitutional issues and still went ahead with this action for political reasons, violated their oath to uphold the Constitution.The Congress and the American  are going to hold them accountable. The President and his reelection campaign would prefer that this just go away. Hence, the admonition from the mainstream media that we stop talking about this issue.Well, I, for one, am not going to stop talking about it, and I am not going away. I am just getting warmed up. We have seen major countries slip down the road toward totalitarianism because they did not stand up for religious liberty. This is not a question about . This is a question about religious liberty and where we are going to stand.The fact is, once we start down the road of denying the individual rights of personal conscience and religious freedom, and begin to tell churches and synagogues what they must believe, we are on the way to losing the freedoms all of us hold dear.Religious freedom is the first freedom mentioned in the Bill of Rights. This is important stuff. I am not Catholic. But I would fight to my death for the Catholic  to be able to live their faith. My own faith feels the same way about many of these issues. No church or person should be forced to make abortion-inducing drugs accessible, as the President's mandate will require them to do.I do not think any compromise has been suggested so far that would meet the high bar set by our Constitution. There is only one option for the President on this issue. He needs to rescind this unlawful regulation. There is no middle ground. When it comes to the first amendment right to religious liberty, there can be no compromise.I suggest the absence of a quorum.I yield myself such time as I may consume.Madam , I am a little appalled at some of the comments that I have heard across the aisle, especially those that say talking about jobs is more important than talking about saving lives.I don't believe there are many Americans who would agree with our colleagues who say that we in this country pride ourselves on saving lives at every opportunity, both humans, animals, any form of life, and I believe this is a worthy debate for us to be having today.But, Madam , the Republican-led House has also been working hard to rein in out-of-control government spending and represent the majority of the American  who elected us, and we know that by reining in spending we could do something to help create jobs. So we are not a one-note party. We understand we can do both of those things.The bill before us today is a continuing effort to steward the taxpayer money wisely, represent the majority of Americans who believe taxpayer money should not be used to pay for elective abortions, and, thereby, protect innocent life.Last year, as others have said, the liberal Democrats rammed through their overall health care legislation and refused to include standard pro-life protections that have had broad bipartisan support in the past.The rule before us today provides for consideration of H.R. 358, the Protect Life Act, which prohibits taxpayer funding for elective abortions under ObamaCare and also prohibits the Federal Government from forcing private insurance companies to offer plans that cover elective abortions. It does not take away any rights of women.In addition, the underlying bill ensures that taxpayer subsidies for purchasing health insurance plans on the ObamaCare exchanges are not used to pay for plans that cover elective abortions, and does not allow the Federal Government to administer health plans that cover elective abortions. This is consistent with the history in our country of not using taxpayer funding for elective abortions.Finally, the bill provides for conscience protections for pro-life health providers and entities to ensure they are not discriminated against for their pro-life beliefs and practices.This bill has gone through regular committee consideration and passed the House Energy and Commerce Committee on February 15 with bipartisan support. The need for this legislation is critical, as the Institute of Medicine recommended in July that what has come to be called ObamaCare should cover emergency  with no copay or deductible. Many pro-life conservatives are concerned that their recommendation is a slippery slope to, again, what has been known as ObamaCare mandating and covering elective abortions, because the law does not contain specific longstanding pro-life protections.A Zogby poll last year found that 77 percent of Americans believe Federal taxpayer funds should never pay for abortion or should pay only to save the life of the mother, and it is unacceptable that the liberal Democrats ignored the will of the  last year in ramming through their government takeover of health care.As you can see, Madam , the vast majority of Americans don't want their tax dollars paying for or promoting abortion.This isn't part of a radical agenda, as some of our friends on the left like to say. This is part of a longstanding and growing social consensus. Americans do not want their tax dollars supporting the abortion industry or promoting this terrible practice.In May this House passed H.R. 3, the No Taxpayer Funding for Abortion Act. This legislation would codify many longstanding pro-life provisions and ensure that taxpayer money is not being used to perform abortions. H.R. 3 is now awaiting consideration in the Senate.As a proud cosponsor of H.R. 3 and H.R. 358, I will not cease to fight to protect the lives of the unborn at every turn. Since 1973, approximately 52 million children's lives have been tragically aborted in the United States. Until we have a permanent prohibition on taxpayer funding of abortion and protection for health care providers who cherish life, I will continue to offer and support efforts to protect taxpayers' families and children from the scourge of abortion.The unborn are the most innocent and vulnerable members of our society, and their right to life must be protected.Yesterday in the Rules Committee our friends across the aisle who spoke against this rule and bill said we're bringing up ``hot-button social issues as diversions from the important topic of jobs.''I have two responses to them on that comment. The issue of life is not a hot-button social issue; it's at the very core of our values as a country. We go to extraordinary lengths to save not only human beings, but even animals, because we value life so much. However, there are many who do not hold the unborn in the same esteem, and that is tragic for more than 1 billion unborn babies every year.Therefore, Madam , I urge my colleagues to support this rule in favor of the underlying bill.I reserve the balance of my time.. , we hear about religious persecution throughout the Third World, but there is an anti-religious movement right here in the United States. The Catholic Church is being persecuted by this government.Our great country was founded on the principle of religious liberty. This right is in the First Amendment, and the provisions of the First Amendment are listed first because they are the most important. Yet, the administration is chipping away at this cornerstone of our society by violating the religious liberty of those who hold fast to certain positions of their faith, in particular, those of the Catholic Church.The Department of Health and Human Services recently announced that religious organizations will be forced to provide their employees with medical insurance that covers free contraceptives and sterilizations.While houses of worship are exempt, religiously affiliated organizations such as hospitals, universities, and charities are mandated to comply with this government edict. This goes against the basic tenets of the Catholic religion, as well as other faiths, Christian and non-Christian.The administration believes that it's enough to give religious organizations 1 year's notice to comply with this government oppression. But there will never be enough time for the church to change its core principles.Timothy Dolan, president of the United States Council of Catholic Bishops and New York archbishop, said it best: ``In effect, the President is saying we have a year to figure out how to violate our consciences.''. , religious principles are not negotiable. They are not to be subject to bullying by any government, especially ours. No government has the legal or moral right to target any religions and make them violate their religious conscience.The administration is violating two provisions of the First Amendment: the free exercise of religion clause and the establishment of religion clause. The government is prohibiting the free exercise of religion because it is punishing Catholics for exercising their religious beliefs.Government is also violating the establishment clause by establishing a government religion, statism, because government is establishing its own moral standard that must be complied with or else. Regardless of where Americans stand on the issues of , sterilization, or the abortion pill, this government oppression should be alarming for those who believe the government should not punish religions or substitute a religious doctrine for citizens. The government should stay out of the business of persecuting religions.This recent anti-religious mandate is completely unacceptable, but it is only one example in a long line of new government actions that disregard freedom of conscience and religious liberty. This comes on the heels of the administration's denial of a grant to the United States Council of Catholic Bishops to aid victims of human trafficking. Not only have they been awarded this grant in the past, but their application has received the highest quality score.. , this money is used to help victims from the scourge of human slavery. But the church was denied this grant because their religious convictions do not provide contraceptives or refer women to abortions. Apparently, under this administration, in order to aid victims, it is necessary for religious groups to violate their religious convictions.These are only two of the most recent assaults by government, our government, on religious liberty and conscience. As soon as this administration came into office, a proposal was submitted to rescind conscience regulations for medical professionals. Protections for medical professionals who would not violate their conscience by distributing emergency contraceptives was rescinded. This was just a glimpse of what was to come in deliberate disregard for the First Amendment.This administration's attack on religious liberty is a strike at the core principles of our Nation. Government is putting basic freedoms in jeopardy and bruising the U.S. Constitution. No government should force its citizens to violate their religious beliefs.Who would have thought that this Nation, founded on religious liberty, would now be engaged in religious persecution against certain citizens and against certain churches?This ought not to be. But that's just the way it is.Tonight, my colleagues and I have come to the floor, both as Members of Congress and physicians, to discuss the urgent need to repeal and replace the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act.Like many of my fellow Members here this evening, I've spent the last decades of my life as a physician, a surgeon. Unlike our President, I was on the front lines of medicine. I went to medical school in Detroit, Michigan. I did a family practice internship in Flint. I returned to Detroit to do a surgical residency, and then moved to the upper peninsula of Michigan, where for the last 28 years until I took this job, I was taking care of patients in a rural general surgical practice.I know what it's like to be in a small town where  depend on their local physician, and it's 2 hours in an ambulance to get to the nearest hospital. And the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act is affecting rural hospitals to such a degree that many of these hospitals are going to close. And I just want to bring to your attention, . , the seriousness of this problem.It's been a pleasure being a surgeon. It's a pleasure being here in Congress. As a matter of fact, sometimes patients of mine still call the congressional office inquiring about scheduling a case. One of the very reasons I ran for Congress was because I felt those with real health care experience needed to contribute to the national discussion on health care reform. Tonight, along with other members of the Doctors Caucus, I'd like to dispel some of the myths associated with the President's health care bill.It's time to set the record straight. It isn't enough to just say this bill must be repealed, we must tell you why it has to be repealed, explain to you the really bad aspects of this bill. I'm proud to say that one of my first votes as a Member of Congress was to repeal it. Tonight, we're going to go through some of the provisions of the bill which make it so onerous.While I disagree with the President's health care bill for a number of reasons, I'm particularly appalled at the recent regulation issued by the United States Department of Health and Human Services as a result of the bill, requiring all employers, even if they have a religious or moral objection, to offer health insurance that includes sterilization, abortion-inducing drugs, and .I offer for the Record an excerpt from a letter from Bishop Sample of the Catholic Diocese of Marquette, one of my constituents. Here is a quote from Bishop Sample's letter:In so ruling, the Obama administration has cast aside the First Amendment to the Constitution of the United States, denying to Catholics our Nation's first and most fundamental freedom, that of religious liberty. And as a result, unless the rule is overturned, we Catholics will be compelled to either violate our conscience or drop health care coverage for our employees and suffer the penalties for doing so. The Obama administration's sole concession was to give our institutions 1 year to comply. We cannot, we will not comply with this unjust law. People of faith cannot be made second- class citizens.. , as a fellow Catholic and a physician, I agree with Bishop Sample. It's my belief that the government has no right to mandate that employers purchase health insurance for their employees in the first place. But this law is made even worse by demanding that those who support life, regardless of their particular religion, provide coverage for abortion-inducing drugs.. , Federal conscience laws have existed since 1973 and have protected many health care providers from discrimination due to religious and moral values. Unfortunately, President Obama's health care bill contains no language protecting the conscience of health care providers.I recently cosponsored H.R. 1179, the Respect for Rights of Conscience Act, which was introduced by my colleague, . Fortenberry of Nebraska. If signed into law, this bill would amend the Affordable Care Act to permit a health plan to decline coverage of specific items and services that are contrary to the religious beliefs of the sponsor of the plan without suffering consequences. While I and other Members of Congress continue our efforts to repeal the President's health care plan in its entirety, bills such as H.R. 1179 are necessary while the Affordable Care Act is still law to ensure that the Federal Government does not mandate any American citizen to defy their own religious principles.I certainly have many other issues with the President's health care bill, but I'd like to give some time to my other colleagues here tonight a chance to speak as well.Madam President, I rise today to call upon the President of the United States to rescind one of the most radical and unconstitutional mandates ever issued, a mandate that requires faith-based organizations, hospitals, and educational institutions to provide and pay for health insurance coverage that violates the fundamental tenets of their faith.Our Founding Fathers believed so deeply in the importance of religious freedom that they made it the very first American principle in the Bill of Rights. The first amendment to the Constitution reads, in part:Congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of religion or prohibiting the free exercise thereof.On January 20, the Obama administration announced one of the greatest deviations from this constitutional guarantee of religious freedom in our Nation's history. This Federal rule is a blatant assault on the conscience rights of any organization or any individual who opposes abortion or the use of contraceptives.While I am a pro-life Senator and believe that life begins at conception, I am not someone that supports banning . But I do support the right of those who hold the belief that those tenets should be respected, and that Federal mandates, Federal regulations, and Federal laws should not be used to overturn that belief.I do not believe this ruling was an oversight. The Obama administration doubled down on its ruling by ignoring the numerous efforts by faith-based organizations to be granted an exemption. This issue is not a debate over whether the use of contraceptives is right or wrong. This is not a debate over whether the health care law is the right policy or the wrong policy. I do believe personally that the ObamaCare policy is the wrong policy for this Nation. But this is a debate over whether the Congress is going to sit idly by and watch the administration walk all over freedom of religion--and not just the Congress but the institutions of America and the  of America--a core American principle or will we stand and protect what our Founding Fathers put their lives on the line for and what millions of Americans practice each day.Catholic institutions, whether they be social services or universities such as the University of Notre Dame in South Bend, will have one of two choices: they can either pay for health insurance that covers things such as sterilization or birth control, despite their deeply held religious objections, or they can refuse to offer any sort of health insurance to their employees, which will result in these organizations facing significant fines and penalties while their employees are forced to seek health insurance elsewhere.In other words, the Obama administration is saying: Compromise your religious beliefs to comply with our massive Federal health care law or you and your employees will face a penalty.While this decision will greatly impact many in the Catholic faith, it will also extend beyond a singular religious denomination. A wide variety of religious institutions and organizations across the country will resist providing insurance coverage for birth control. Cardinal-designate Timothy Dolan, president of the U.S. Conference on Catholic Bishops, said:Never before has the Federal Government forced individuals and organizations to go out into the marketplace and buy a product that violates their conscience. This shouldn't happen in a land where free exercise of religion ranks first in the Bill of Rights.Although a blatant violation of the first amendment, this ruling is a culmination of attacks on religious and faith-based organizations by this administration. I fear, as Washington Post columnist Michael Gerson noted in his article today, that such a trend will threaten the good work being done by faith-based groups--of any faith--whether it be Catholic, Protestant, Jewish or Muslim. Any group or nonprofit hospital or charity that is working to provide services to  in need now has to compromise their basic religious tenets in order to continue to provide that insurance coverage for their employees or pay a fine by not doing so.There have been some bills introduced in the Senate to rescind this. I would hope that those in the administration who are listening to the  and listening to the protests that are being made against this almost unconscionable mandate will not stand by idly and wait to see whether Congress will act because we will act. We will act as soon as we can. I would hope that they would reconsider this sweeping unconstitutional ruling which is in direct violation of the first amendment.George Washington once said:Every man, conducting himself as a good citizen and being accountable to God alone for his religious opinions, ought to be protected in worshiping the Deity according to the dictates of his own conscience.We must take a stand to protect this inalienable right, the right of conscience established by our Founding Fathers and sustained for over 200 years.. President, you can undo this wrong by rescinding this mandate that has been imposed in violation of the most basic of human rights and principles of our Constitution. I am calling on you to do so.I yield the floor.. , a few weeks ago, President Obama stood in this very Chamber and spoke about the need for fairness. Fairness, he said, is an American value. Yet the President and his administration are blatantly ignoring one of the most basic of American values--the freedom of religion. I'm referring to the decision by the Obama administration to force Catholic employers to provide insurance that includes coverage for sterilization, abortion-inducing drugs, and .Catholic employers who fail to provide that insurance coverage could be fined $2,000 per employee per year. And the Obama administration will force Catholics to buy insurance coverage that includes coverage for services that many of them find morally wrong. For many Catholics, this requirement violates their core beliefs about the sanctity of life of the unborn.The health care law that is forcing Catholics to put their government ahead of their God includes a ``religious conscience'' exemption. It allows  with certain religious objections to opt out, and some religious groups have been allowed to opt out. But Catholics have been denied an opt-out. Instead, the Obama administration is forcing Catholics to violate their religious conscience.This is not the United States of America that I know. Religious tolerance has been a bedrock principle of the American Government for almost 240 years. It's one of the reasons why the United States came to exist in the first place. The First Amendment states that Americans have the right to religious freedom. Religious freedom isn't just the ability to believe and worship as we see fit. It's also our right to keep other beliefs from being imposed on us. The Federal Government has respected those rights by being sensitive, by creating tolerant policies regarding our military service, our tax policies and even our airport screenings.American Catholics are not asking for special rights. We're asking for equal rights. I am proudly pro-life, and I will stand here to defend the rights of the unborn. But this isn't about abortion. This isn't a question of when life begins. This is about the fundamental rights of all Americans, as spelled out in our founding documents. And this decision by the Obama administration is a devastating blow against the freedom of religion.It's one thing for the Federal Government to try to take over our health care system, and we can all debate the merits of such legislation. But I think we can all agree, no matter on what side of the aisle we stand, that the right to freely express our religious beliefs--and, more importantly, not have other beliefs forced upon us--is a core value of this country. It is nonnegotiable.Good  of all faiths should be outraged by this decision. If this administration can trample on the beliefs and rights of the American Catholics, those of other religions should ask, are we next?Yesterday, I read in The New York Times that legal scholars say the American Constitution is old and outdated, that it isn't relevant in the modern world. Now, as this administration ignores our most treasured values--not religious values, but American values--our Constitution could not be more relevant. The first words of the American Bill of Rights are: Congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of religion, or prohibiting the free exercise thereof.They're first, and they're first for a reason. The United States of America has long been a place of religious freedom. It's one of the things that separates us from foreign countries. Just as the Federal Government should not endorse a religion, it should not punish a religion, either. All religions must be treated equally. They must be respected. That's the American way. Today, Catholics all across the United States feel like outsiders. They feel as if their government has betrayed them.Catholic leaders, including three bishops that lead Catholics in my district, have clearly said they cannot and will not comply with this unjust decision by the Obama administration. No one should have to choose between their God and their government. And no one, especially a government founded on religious freedom, should force them to.The decision by this administration to make Catholics violate their most basic principles is a violation of the most basic American principle. I strongly condemn the Obama administration for this outrageous overreach of Federal authority; and I strongly encourage the administration to rescind this unfair, un-American policy. If the Obama administration can take away this most basic American value for 80 million Catholics, who's next?I thank the Senator. I appreciate the opportunity to be here to rise in support of the pending amendment that is based upon, as Senator Blunt mentioned, a piece of legislation that was introduced on a bipartisan basis earlier in the year called the Respect for Rights of Conscience Act, which I was proud to cosponsor.During the past few weeks, we have heard certainly impassioned arguments from both sides of the aisle about this issue. Certainly, it has been a robust and important exchange of views, which I have appreciated. However, I think it is regrettable that similar to so much else that happens around here, this issue has been used as an election-year tactic to score political points, and in some cases there have been the facts of what this amendment and our bill hope to accomplish have been supplanted by mischaracterizations and distortions.That is unfortunate because what we are here to talk about is incredibly important. This is a fundamental matter of religious freedom and the proper role of our Federal Government. It is about who we are as Americans and renewing our commitment to the principles upon which this Nation was founded.This debate comes down to the legacy left behind by our Founding Fathers and over 200 years of American history. We have a choice between being responsible stewards of their legacy, as reflected in the first amendment to the Constitution, or allowing the Federal Government to interfere in religious life in an unprecedented way. The first amendment to the Constitution starts with: ``Congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of religion or prohibiting the free exercise thereof.''Just last month, we saw our Supreme Court unanimously uphold, under the establishment and free exercise clauses of our Constitution, a ruling in the Hosanna-Tabor case that the Federal Government may not infringe on the rights of religious institutions in their hiring practices. To do so, they ruled on a unanimous basis, would interfere with the internal governance of the church.Protecting religious freedom and conscience rights has in the past been, as was mentioned here, a bipartisan issue. No less than Ted Kennedy himself, a liberal icon of the Senate, wrote in 2009 to the Pope: ``I believe in a conscience protection for Catholics in the health care field and will continue to advocate for it.''Senator Kennedy had previously pushed for the inclusion of conscience protections in legislation he proposed in 1997 as well as in his Affordable Health Care for all Americans Act proposed in 1995. These are the same protections our amendment seeks to restore.In 1994, provisions aimed at protecting conscience rights were included in the recommendations made by the Task Force on National Health Care Reform, led by then-First Lady Hillary Clinton. In 1993, when President Bill Clinton signed the bipartisan Religious Freedom Restoration Act into law, he said: ``The government should be held to a very high level of proof before it interferes with someone's free exercise of religion.''Protecting religious freedoms was once an issue that bound Americans together. It certainly is a very important issue as we take the oath of office here to uphold the Constitution of the United States. I believe this effort which is so fundamental to our national character must bring us together once more on a bipartisan basis.I would like to make one very important point about this amendment. Unfortunately, many have tried to characterize this amendment as denying women access to . That is a red herring, and it is false. We are talking about government mandates that are interfering with conscience protections that have long been engrained in our law.To be clear, women had access to these services before the President passed the Affordable Care Act, and after this amendment would be passed, they would still have access to these important services. Contrary to what some of my friends on the other side of the aisle have asserted, this measure simply allows health care providers and companies to have the same conscience rights they had before the President's health care bill took effect.We are not breaking any new ground. In fact, we are respecting what is contained within our first amendment to the Constitution and what has long been a bipartisan effort to respect the conscience rights of all Americans, whatever their religious views are.This vote goes to the heart of who we are. If we allow the government to dictate the coverage and plans paid for by religious institutions, that is the first step down a slippery slope. When religious liberty has been threatened in the past, Members of both sides of the aisle of Congress have taken action to preserve our country's cherished freedoms. We must do so again now or risk compromising a foundational American principle.I hope my colleagues on both sides of the aisle will give this amendment careful consideration and appreciate that it is an amendment that will respect the conscience rights of all religions and will certainly not deny women access to services they need and deserve.I appreciate the Senator having me here today. I hope my colleagues will support this important amendment.I thank the Senator.. President, let me conclude in the next few minutes by first saying that a growing list of groups support this amendment: Home School Legal Defense Association, Family Research Council, Southern Baptist Convention, Americans United for Life, American Center for Law and Justice, Susan B. Anthony List, Becket Fund for Religious Liberty, U.S. Conference of Catholic Bishops, Focus on the Family, Christian Medical Association, National Right to Life, National Association of Evangelicals, Orthodox Union of Jewish Congregations, Concerned Women for America, Eagle Forum, Religious Freedom Coalition, CatholicVote.org, American Family Association, Catholic Advocate, Traditional Values Coalition, Christus Medicus Foundation, Alliance Defense Fund, Christian Coalition, Advanced USA, American Association of Christian Schools, American Principles Project, Wallbuilders, Let Freedom Ring Liberty Consulting, Liberty Counsel Action, Free Congress Foundation, Council for Christian Colleges and Universities, Students for Life of America, Heritage Action, and there are others that are supporting this amendment.We can go back to 1965 and a Supreme Court case where the determination of how a conscientious objection would be defined was clearly established in ways that led to this religious belief and moral conviction becoming the standard. It is not just something we came up with for this amendment, it has been the standard since that 1965 case. It said: These are the elements you have to have. You cannot suddenly decide you have a religious conviction. This is a conviction that has to be a provable part of who you are.The Public Health Service Act in 1973, where Senator Church brought this language into the public health arena, is really the first major legislation after Medicare and the Medicaid discussion. There was also the Legal Services Corporation limitation, the foreign aid funding limitation, and the refusal to participate in executions or in prosecutions of capital crimes limitation. This language was good enough for those things, and almost every Member of the current Senate, if they were there then, voted for these, and since, including the action Senator Coats talked about earlier. The Medicare and Medicaid Counseling and Referral Act, the Federal Employees Health Benefits Plan, contraceptive coverage for Federal employees in 1999, the DC contraceptive mandate in 2000, and the United States Leadership Against HIV/AIDS, Tuberculosis, and Malaria Act in 2003 all included this language. We had to get to the affordable health care act, which passed the Senate, and then suddenly it wasn't possible to go through the final process of legislating here. There was no conference committee, no House bill. My belief is that almost nobody who voted for that act originally thought that would be the final bill.Frankly, I think that if we had ever had a more normal process, this normal element of protecting the first amendment would have been added, as it was every other time. This is about the first amendment. I understand the fundraising ability to make it about something else. I understand the PR ability to make it about something else. But it is not about anything else.A minute ago, we had three Protestants on the floor on the  issue who probably have no religious problem at all. There may be other elements I have problems with, but it doesn't matter if I have a problem. What matters is that I represent lots of  who do have a problem with it, and the Constitution is specifically designed to protect those strongly held religious views.As Senator Coats said, it was the first thing in the first amendment. It was exact in its duplication in 1994 in the great health care effort made then, whether it was the protection of religious freedom or the Patients' Bill of Rights or the effort First Lady Clinton worked hard to do. This wasn't even really a debatable item then because everybody understood this was a necessary part of protecting the first amendment to the Constitution.Again, I would say if these two or three things that are most objectionable to the Catholic community right now--and many of the  who are opposed to this are opposed to this because they wonder what they could be opposed to that the government would decide they had to participate in, they had to be a provider of, they had to pay the bill for. I would ask my colleagues to think of something in their religious view that they would not want to be forced by the government to be part of, and let's give all Americans that same capacity who have these strongly held religious beliefs.I would encourage my colleagues to support the first amendment. I am grateful for those groups around the country that have rallied around the first amendment. Freedom of religion defines who we are and has defined who we are since the very beginning of constitutional government, where the first thing added to the Constitution was the Bill of Rights. And the first thing in the Bill of Rights is respect for religion. We need to not give that away just to prove that everybody has to do what the government says because the government knows best rather than our conscience and our personal views.This is not about whether  provide health care or not, it is about whether they are required to provide elements of health care they believe are fundamentally wrong, and how the government can force  to do things they believe and have a provable religious conviction are fundamentally wrong.. President, I think we have used the hour we had, but this debate will go on. There will be a vote tomorrow, but this debate will go on until this important freedom is soundly protected in health care, in hiring, in all of the elements that create that faith distinctive in our individuals and institutions that make us uniquely who we are.I yield the floor.I thank you, . Fortenberry, a father of five. And I'm a mother of five, and so I thank you.. , I will give just a few remarks on Priests for Life and on their 20th anniversary. Tonight is a very important night because, as we know, it has been 40 years since the infamous Roe v. Wade decision removed legal protection for those who are unborn, the youngest members of our society, those who still remain in the womb of their mother.And since that time, numerous groups have risen up to restore that protection to the unborn and to educate the public about the issue that we all know as abortion, and to provide compassionate service, both to those who need alternatives to abortion and those who need healing after abortion.I stand here today with my colleagues in the United States Congress to honor one extremely important institution known as Priests for Life as they celebrate 20 years of advocacy and service to the unborn. As many  across America know, Priests for Life is led by Father Frank Pavone. He is one of the strongest voices for the unborn throughout the world, as well as for children in America, and he stands strong because as we know, contrary to what its name might suggest, Priests for Life isn't just for priests, and it's not just for Catholics.The work of Priests for Life has enabled Americans of every walk of life, every ethnicity, every faith background, every political affiliation, to awaken their consciences about the life issue, to speak up for the unborn. And here's just a few of the outreach efforts, . , that Priests for Life have been involved in.Every year, Priests for Life holds nearly 1,000 retreats across America for men and women who have lost a child to abortion. Priests for Life also runs the very important Silent No More awareness campaign to mobilize men and women who have lost a child to abortion but who have gone on to experience healing through God and who now want to share their testimony.One of the full-time members of Priests for Life is a very important voice in the United States, Dr. Alveda King. I was just with her this last weekend. Americans know her as the niece of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. Alveda heads up the effort to reach the black community with the truth of abortion and how it disproportionately impacts unborn black children in the United States.Priests for Life also sponsors a nonpartisan voter registration drive, focused on saving innocent human life and helping to heal the hurt of men and women as they are post-abortive. Through churches, they distribute voter guides. They train clergy on what they can do within the limits of the law to foster political responsibility.Now, it is very difficult to find any national initiative to the pro-life movement that either Father Frank Pavone or Priests for Life are somehow not deeply involved in. For example, in February of this year, 2012, Priests for Life launched a lawsuit against the Health and Human Services mandate, which we have heard much about this evening, that requires job creators to offer health insurance coverage for morally objectionable practices.This mandate is an enormous affront to our First Amendment religious liberty rights in the United States and it needs to be stopped, because never before has this government, . , required a job creator to provide insurance that includes , abortion-causing pills and sterilization. No organization, no American, . , should have to violate their religious beliefs because of this President's health care dictates. I am a mom to 28 kids, five natural born children, 23 foster children. I believe with every fiber in my being that every child matters and that we should have a right to life for every American, because every life is precious, every life is sacred, and every life is made in the image and likeness of a holy God. Every life matters.I'm extremely proud to be a part of the pro-life movement that is truly a voice for the voiceless and to have been affiliated with Priests for Life and Father Frank Pavone. As we take note of the 20th anniversary of one of the leading pro-life organizations in our Nation, I wish to thank this evening Priests for Life for everything they continue to do to protect and defend the sanctity of every human life.I would now like to yield to one of the strongest pro-life voices in the State of Texas, well-known and beloved to Americans all across this Nation, Representative Louie Gohmert.Madam President, I come to the floor today, as I do week after week, as a physician who practiced medicine in Casper, WY, taking care of families in the community and across the State for about a quarter of a century. I come as a doctor providing a second opinion about the health care law. Since this health care law was signed by the President almost 2 years ago, the public has been overwhelmingly opposed to it. The Democrats in Congress drafted this health care law. They did so quickly and behind closed doors. In spite of the President's promise that the discussions would be held on C-SPAN, no one saw what was happening.Now the bill is law and, as Nancy Pelosi said, first you have to pass it before you get to find out what is in it. We have, as Americans, witnessed week after week the unintended consequences of the rush of the Democrats to score what they thought would be a political victory. So I continue to come to the floor with a second opinion because week after week there is another new finding of this monstrous law, and it is why week after week this health care law remains incredibly unpopular. The list of victims of this law continues to grow longer each week. Small business owners, families,  who get their coverage through their employers, and patients all across the country have already been impacted by this health care law.But on January 20, the third anniversary of the President's inauguration, the President's health care law found a very new target, and that target amazingly is religious liberty. Now this administration is mandating that religious institutions provide services that undermine the beliefs of religious institutions across the country. In my opinion, and in the opinion of many across this Nation, this ruling tramples one of the amendments of the Constitution. I would say it is an easy amendment to find since it is the first one. It is the one which protects the rights to freedom of religion and freedom of expression. Reading from the Constitution, Amendment No. 1, Congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of religion or prohibiting the free exercise thereof.If you take a look back at our Nation's history, the right to freedom of religion is one of the main reasons that many  came to America in the first place, and it is one of the reasons  have fought and have died for our Nation.So what is someone to do? Well, Washington Archbishop Donald Wuerl has expressed the dilemma many institutions face, and he did it in a letter last week. The archbishop in Washington said the mandate will allow a Catholic school only one of three options: No. 1, to violate its beliefs by providing coverage for medications and procedures that Catholics believe are immoral; No. 2, to cease providing insurance coverage for all of its employees and then face ongoing and ultimately ruinous fines; or, No. 3, attempt to qualify for the exemptions by hiring and serving only Catholics, exclude everyone else.Many Americans understand all three of those options are indefensible. Americans from across the political spectrum are speaking out against President Obama's big government power grab. One of my Democratic colleagues, Senator Joe Manchin, called this mandate un-American. Another, Senator Bob Casey, a Democrat from Pennsylvania, objected to forcing Catholic institutions to violate their religious beliefs. Then we have former Representative Kathy Dahlkemper, a Democrat from Pennsylvania, who voted for the health care law in the House of Representatives, who said she would never have voted for the final version of the health care law ``if I expected the Obama administration to force Catholic hospitals and Catholic colleges and universities to pay for .''Even liberal commentators such as E.J. Dionne and Mark Shields have criticized the administration for being unwilling to offer a broader conscience exemption to religious-affiliated institutions.Now that the President's liberal allies are even opposed to this unprecedented power grab, the White House is trying to clean up the mess. It has signaled that it is willing to compromise on its decision. Instead of a mild compromise, the regulation--and the entire health care law--needs to be fully repealed. As the Wall Street Journal editorial board points out:In any case HHS would revive this coercion whenever it is politically convenient sometime in . Obama's second term. Religious liberty won't be protected from the entitlement state until Obamacare is repealed.I think all Americans should be afraid of the course this White House is on with this regulation. This debate isn't about women's health; it is about power. Washington should not have the power to force religious  and religious institutions to take actions that contradict their beliefs.What we are going to continue to see as the health care law and the mandates and the regulations continue to come out is a government and an administration that continue to expand the government reach in terms of its size, in terms of its scope, and in terms of its grab for power.The health care law was supposed to be about  and health care--the care they need from the doctor they want at a cost they can afford. Instead we have a lot of IRS agents but no new doctors and nurses. I go to townhall meetings and ask: How many of you under this health care law who are hoping to get the care you need from a doctor you want at a price you can afford--how many of you believe the cost of your health care, because of this health care law, will increase, the costs to you will go up? All the hands went up. That is what the  believe when they hear more and more about this health care law.Then I say: How many of you believe the quality and availability of your care will go down? Again, the hands went up.These are the American  knowing everything they do about the health care law, which is very complicated and has not given them what they asked for: the care they need, from a doctor they want, at a cost they can afford. What they find and believe is that they are going to be actually paying more and getting less. That is not what the American  have been promised. It is not what they want. It is not what they expected. But it is what they are finding out they have received now that the law has passed.So this clearly explains why Republicans in the Senate and in the House continue to be committed to repealing the President's health care law.I yield the floor.. , happy Valentine's Day to you. Thank you for this time.There is so much going on. We have had in recent days the testimony of the director of CBO, Congressional Budget Office, making projections. We've had the White House dictating what religious beliefs  could observe and practice and which they could not, and then what was said to be a compromise so that individuals--actually institutions--could practice religious beliefs, the insurance companies that they utilize will have to provide the coverage that the President dictates even though it is against the religious beliefs, and then naturally the way things work, the insurance companies will spread out the costs, and they will pay for them anyway, which will be, once again, in breach of their religious beliefs.It's quite interesting. I've been trying to take this all in, . , as we have seen ObamaCare basically rammed down the throats of Americans with the vast majority not wanting that bill passed, with the vast majority in Congress not having read the bill, and with  Pelosi at the time saying, we'll have to pass it so we can find out what's in it. Well, as  are finding out what's in it, they're not terribly happy.And when you realize, as some of us did before it passed, as some of us were arguing here on the House floor before it passed, that if the President's health care bill passed, it would be such an intrusion into the rights of Americans that as I said here on the floor, it would be about the GRE, the government running everything, that means every aspect of 's lives. That includes setting aside 's religious beliefs when that came into conflict with the President's health care bill. We knew that it would run up tremendous debt. We knew that it would cut Medicare by $500 billion--something our friends across the aisle don't like to talk about a whole lot.Before the supercommittee fiasco ever occurred, the Democratic majority in the House and the Senate passed a bill a majority of Americans didn't want passed that would wrest control away from Americans in so many different areas and would take control and give it to the Federal Government in a way that was never anticipated in the Constitution.So as we have seen this White House dictate to the Catholic Church, to Catholic hospitals, what they would be allowed to practice in the way of their religious beliefs, it's been quite interesting. We've heard many Catholic leaders who have said, you know, gee, we supported President Obama when he was Senator running for President. We thought he would do all these wonderful things. From conversations, as President Jenkins at Notre Dame had with President Obama, he just never anticipated that there would be this type of usurpation of religious practices and the ability to practice one's religious beliefs.This isn't about . Anybody in America that wants  can get it. That's not an issue. In fact, it's been interesting to hear  say  have a right to have  provided. When I look at the Second Amendment of the Constitution, there is a right to bear arms, but I don't remember anybody who was pushing for the government to basically provide whatever  want in the way of health care, paid for by somebody else. I don't remember them saying, well, the Constitution mentions the right to bear arms, so the Federal Government must provide everybody guns. There's all kinds of things that are ensured under the Constitution and under the Bill of Rights, but it doesn't mean the government's supposed to buy them for everybody.But in view of the White House's position, President Obama's position on what religious practices he would allow the Catholic Church to observe, . , I figure we really need to make an addition to the Constitution. Since the President has already taken these actions, then I think maybe we need to just observe some language that we insert into the shadow of a penumbra. So where it says in amendment one to the Constitution of the United States, ``Congress shall make no laws respecting an establishment of religion, or prohibiting the free exercise thereof,'' I think in order to make the President's actions and the White House actions consistent, as those reflected by Secretary Sebelius, we need to insert there a line that comes up and says, But only if you are a religious institution and your beliefs agree with the President of the United States. Because if your religious beliefs come into conflict with Secretary Sebelius or the White House, unless the White House is willing to make some insurance company deal with your practice, then you're just going to have to set aside your religious beliefs.So apparently the parenthetical has been inserted into the Constitution. I'm hopeful that on this issue the Supreme Court will strike down ObamaCare, say there are so many aspects of this bill that are unconstitutional--the mandate to buy a product for the first time in American history is only one of them. But that mandate, of course, is central to the bill itself.But then the way it supercedes the religious institution's beliefs, why we would say ``religious institutions'' is because the President and Secretary Sebelius in their so-called ``compromise'' had not been willing to recognize an individual's beliefs, which I've always understood the Constitution was talking about.No, they say it is confined to the religious beliefs and practices of a religious institution. Because under this White House's interpretation of the Constitution, if you're an individual and you are Baptist, Catholic, Jewish, Muslim, whatever it is--although the FBI has apparently been meeting with named coconspirators for funding terrorism and trying to eliminate any kind of language that might in any way offend  that have supported terrorism, we don't want to offend those who want to kill us, of course.But other than that, this White House sees it that if you're an individual and not a religious institution, then you have no right under the First Amendment to practice your religious beliefs if they're in conflict with what President Obama or Kathleen Sebelius want to do. You'll have to set them aside. It's only under their interpretation of the Constitution--and of course we know the President was an instructor--not a professor, but an instructor--at a law school at one time, so I'm sure he understands the Constitution--but under their beliefs, you've just got to set them aside. If you're not a religious institution, you have no right to demand to put your practices into use. So apparently the First Amendment, according to them, only applies to religious institutions.I never learned that in law school, because we were taught that if you read the Declaration of Independence and how that ended up by the end of the Revolution opening the door--of course first for the Articles of Confederation, then 4 years later for the Constitution--that all this worked together. There was a belief at that time in the rights of an individual--not of a religious institution--the rights of an individual. That's why one of the statues here in the Capitol, one of the two from Pennsylvania, is for a Reverend named Muhlenberg. The statue is of him taking off his ministerial robe because he believed, as the Declaration of Independence said, that we were endowed by our Creator with certain inalienable rights, and there comes a time when  have to stand up for those rights.So Reverend Muhlenberg was preaching from Ecclesiastes and he was talking--I believe it's chapter 3--that there is a time for every purpose under heaven. When he got to the verse--I believe it's verse 8--``there is a time for war and a time for peace,'' he took off his ministerial robe, and there he was in an officer's uniform and in essence said, ladies and gentlemen, now is the time for war. He recruited  from his church to join him in the fight in the Revolution, they recruited  from the town, and by the end of the war, Muhlenberg was a general.His brother was also a reverend. There's a story told that his brother did not agree with him recruiting from the pulpit; but after his church was burned down, he got active and ended up being quite a participant in the Revolution and actually ended up being the first  of the House of Representatives. Those who know where the term ``separation of church and state'' came from know that it came--not in the Constitution, it's nowhere in here, not at all. Nowhere before the end of the Constitution do you find the words ``separation of church and state,'' nor do you find the words ``wall of separation.'' Those are both contained in a letter that Jefferson wrote to the Danbury Baptists.So in the Constitution, you don't see any prohibition against them dating the Constitution itself with these words: ``Done in convention by the unanimous consent of the states present the seventeenth day of September in the year of our Lord one thousand seven hundred and eighty-seven.''They apparently did not think it offended the Constitution to date it as being done in the year 1787, that being in the year of our Lord, 1787. So imagine the Founders' surprise to learn that the Bill of Rights that they put together, when it said the government would never prohibit the free exercise of religion, would somehow base beliefs on something unwritten in the Constitution as giving the President of the United States and his appointed representative, Kathleen Sebelius at Health and Human Services, the power to order  to disregard the religious beliefs, set them aside and do what the President ordered. For , as Dennis Miller said, that were willing to go to war over a tax on their breakfast drink, they would probably have been even more riled up if King George had taken this kind of action.So, we're told that everyone in America must pay their fair share; yet we're told by the President he does not mean to divide America. And yet I would hope that by the end of this year, before the election, he would put the law where his mouth is and say, You know what? I've been saying for so long now that everybody should pay their fair share. I am finally going to go along with the Republicans who say we ought to have a flat tax. It doesn't matter who you are, Warren Buffett or whomever, we're going to have a flat tax.Steve Forbes said it could be done with a 17 percent flat tax, even allowing for a mortgage interest deduction, even allowing for charitable deduction. And that way, if you've got a flat tax, then Warren Buffett would not have to sue, or his company would not have to sue, as it is now, to avoid paying the millions or billions in taxes that are alleged to be owed. He wouldn't have to fight the IRS so hard at the same time he's saying he doesn't mind paying more. There wouldn't be any question.It's a flat tax. Just take your income, multiply it by the flat tax--no matter who you are, how much you make--and that will be your tax. Because with 53 percent of Americans being the only ones that are paying more in income tax than they get back, we'd better act in a hurry; because once we cross that line where  who are voting get more from the government than they pay in, we're not coming back, absent a miracle of God.So I'm hopeful that the President's going to realize that all the speeches he's been giving about paying fair share really lead you to one, unavoidable conclusion. It's time to quit saying some don't have to pay any tax. It's time to say, look, everybody pay their fair share. Everybody has a percent of their income.Now, of course, Steve Forbes proposed, under his flat tax, that in order to shield the poor, and of course we could debate on what poor is, but in the United States, his proposal was that if you're a family of four, I believe it was $46,000 and less, you wouldn't pay any tax. How could anybody argue with that? A flat tax could do that.In the meantime, we have a proposal from the President for a budget for this year, and it's quite interesting. There's a Wall Street Journal article, and I'll quote from this. It's entitled, ``The Amazing Obama Budget,'' and it's dated today, Valentine's Day 2012. It says:Federal budgets are by definition political documents, but even by that standard, yesterday's White House proposal for fiscal year 2013 is a brilliant bit of misdirection. With the abracadabra of a tax increase on the wealthy and defense spending cuts that will never materialize, the White House asserts that in President Obama's second term, revenues will soar, outlays will fall, and $1.3 trillion in annual deficits will be cut in half like the lady in the box on stage. All voters need to do is suspend disbelief for another 9 months. And ignore this first 3 years.It says ``4,'' but it's the first 3 years of his administration.The real news in . Obama's budget proposal is the story of those years. What a tale they'll tell.It says down further:All of this has added an astonishing $5 trillion in debt in a single Presidential term. National debt held by the public, the kind you have to pay back, will hit 74.2 percent this year and keep rising to 77.4 percent next year. Economists believe that when debt to GDP reaches 90 percent or so, the economic damage begins to rise, and this doesn't include the debt that future taxpayers owe current and future retirees through the IOUs and the Social Security ``trust fund.''Anyway, it goes on to say:. Obama's chief economic adviser, Gene Sperling, reported that the President wants a new ``global minimum tax.''Talking about a new tax that's a global minimum tax. Wouldn't it be easier just to say, You know what? We're just going to have a flat tax. Everybody needs to pay their fair share.I don't have this in a blowup, but the debt boom, according to the Office of Management and Budget of this White House shows that for 2012 and 2013 we go from a Federal debt held by the public as a share of GDP, around 35 percent, just spiking up, as The Wall Street Journal points out, to between 75 and 80 percent. Pretty dramatic.There's an article from Jeffrey Anderson today that said:According to the White House's own figures, the actual or projected deficit tallies for the 4 years in which Obama has submitted budgets are as follows: $1.293 trillion in 2010, $1.3 trillion in 2011, $1.327 trillion in 2012, and $900 billion in 2013.That's because that's the year that hadn't happened yet.Further down it says:To help put that colossal sum of money into perspective, if you take our deficit spending under Obama and divide it evenly among the roughly 300 million American citizens, that works out to just over $17,000 per person--or about $70,000 for a family of four.That's just the debt that has accrued with President Obama at the helm.I think it's also important to note that, under the bill that I was against but it got passed anyway, the debt ceiling extension back last summer to give the President all the debt ceiling authority he would want, that should carry him clear through the election, it's already appearing that that wasn't near enough.And of course we had the supercommittee that was going to protect us and take care of us and make the cuts that were necessary. And now that those haven't happened, we're gutting our own defense, gutting our own defense.Anybody that studies history knows you never put your national security on the table for negotiation, and we've done that.Now, this chart is pretty telling, and it's based on the testimony of the CBO Director before the Senate Budget Committee. It makes it pretty basic. The Director of CBO in the projections for this year has projected the U.S. tax revenue will be $2.523 trillion.The head of CBO in his February 2, 2012, testimony projects the Federal budget this year will be $3.61 trillion, approximately. That is a deficit for 1 year of $1.079 trillion. Our national debt currently appears to be $15.348 trillion. According to the director of CBO, our budget cuts from 2010, when coupled with the ones projected for 2011, actually amounted to around $41 billion.So that's kind of hard for some of us to understand when you're talking about numbers with so many zeroes. So it may be far more effective--and my staff has done a great job of putting this together for me--by removing eight zeroes from all of those trillion dollar numbers. It makes it more easily discernible if you say, All right, let's look at it as a family budget.A family budget. They're bringing in $25,230 for 1 year, but they're going to spend $36,010 in that same year. That's going to increase their debt that they're going to owe by $10,780. So $10,780 on the new credit card.Well, we already have a credit card balance of $153,480. That should put it in perspective.As a country, it's basically like being a family making $25,000, spending $36,000, not once, but 4 years in a row under this President. And we already had $153,000 in debt, and we're only bringing in $25,000. This is like credit card debt. It's not secured by a home--except for America.We have put our future, America's future, our children, grandchildren's future all in hock for this much, and we can proudly say--those that don't understand, I get sarcastic from time to time--we can proudly say that since 2010, 2011, if you take away the eight zeroes, we have cut $410 of our spending.We've got a lot of work to do. We owe the American public better than we've done. It's time to take a stand.We've been told, of course, whether you're a Republican or Democrat, that when you're elected as a freshman, your odds of being defeated in the first election you stand for as an incumbent, are 10 to 20 percent. That means there were some fantastic freshman Republicans that were elected in this last election. Ten to 20 percent of them may get defeated in the next election. What will they have to show unless we stand up and say enough is enough?. President, Senator Reid, we're standing on our principles so that we can leave the next generation as good or better a country than we inherited. But we're going to have start moving and we're going to have to start standing on principle very quickly. Easy to do.Some say, Oh, it will be so hard making all of these cuts. No, it won't. We can go back to the 2008 budget that the most liberal Congress in history had passed. Didn't hear a lot of complaints about not enough spending that year. Go to that budget. That knocks out a trillion right there.Enough of the games. It's time to stand up for America, stand up for a responsible budget, cut the wasteful spending, stop the crony capitalism for groups like Solyndra, and let's get this economy going back again--strong, stronger, strongest ever.With that, . , I yield back the balance of my time.I want to thank the gentleman from Texas who spoke so eloquently about the condition of the country and the condition it's left in. I want to remind the American  that one of the obstacles we still have to overcome is that we have a health care plan that was passed out of the last Congress that isn't in full effect yet, but we're starting to feel the problems with it.What I'm referring to is, of course, what everyone else calls the ObamaCare legislation, passed 2\1/2\ years ago now, not fully implemented until after this next election, but influencing Americans in their daily lives. Now, the majority of Americans don't agree with the plan. A majority of Americans don't want the plan, but we still have it.Interestingly, about a third of Americans think we don't have it anymore, that when the House passed their repeal last year in January--one of the very first actions we took in the new House--they thought we were done with it, that America could wash its hands of it. But, in fact, the repeal bill was sent to the Senate where, as many other bills coming out of the House last year, it suffered the same fate. It sits in the Senate without the Senate taking action to do what the American  want, which is to repeal ObamaCare.America understands that that bill has many, many problems, some of which we'll talk about in the next few minutes, just to remind Americans this is still there. It's still causing problems.The gentleman from Texas spoke about the problems with our economy. As I go through the district I represent, I talk to businessmen and -women every week; and they tell me the same thing: they're worried about the economy. They're worried about government regulation. They're worried about health care insurance for their employees because they're worried about what the effect of ObamaCare is. And as this shows, 74 percent of American businesses surveyed by the U.S. Chamber of Commerce say: The recent health care law--that's ObamaCare--makes it harder for their businesses to hire more employees.The bottom line is they don't know what the rules are. The rules are changing. As we know, 1,700 businesses and unions have to get waivers from that bill in order to keep their health care going this year. And of course those waivers will disappear in a year, and businesses don't know what's going to happen once those waivers expire.A real life example: a furniture business owner in the Fifth District of Texas, this is what he said: I could start two companies and hire multiple ; but based on this administration and the lack of facts with ObamaCare, I will continue to sit and wait.Ladies and gentlemen, . , America knows that you can't possibly make another empty government promise to ensure 14 million additional Americans while you are going to save money, increase access, and increase quality. Americans have figured this out a long time ago. You can't get all those things. And they know and they suspect what's going to happen is what will happen: the quality will go down, and the amount of money spent on other health care programs by the government will go down.What's the other major health care program paid for by the government? Medicare. The ObamaCare bill takes $500 billion out of Medicare over the next 10 years. Most worrisome is how it takes that $500 billion out of Medicare. It sets up what's called the Independent Payment Advisory Board. Now, every American ought to be familiar with those terms because this is what's going to control your health care when you get old or your parent gets old or a loved one you know enters Medicare.These 15 bureaucrats, chosen by the President, not accountable to anyone, with no appeal of their decision, will decide what gets covered and what doesn't get covered in Medicare when the government runs short of money. Now, . , you read the same headlines I do. The government's $15.2 trillion short of money, with no end in sight. The President's last budget, submitted to Congress a year ago--we're waiting to see the budget he's supposed to submit next week, which we understand will be a week or two late--that budget never balanced.. , I don't have that luxury in my household. I actually have to make a budget balance. And . , I would never make a financial move that I knew was passing along a debt to my children and my family. I wouldn't go out, buy a big house, buy a big car, take an expensive vacation, put it on a credit card that I knew my children are going to have to pay.But, . , that's exactly what the President's budget and ObamaCare does. It takes the big government credit card, which is already past its credit limit, $15.2 trillion, runs it through the swiper one more time and says, we're going to insure 14 million more . But don't worry, the cost will go down, the access will go up, and the quality will go up. Americans just don't believe it, and they have a right not to believe it.This 15-member board, the Independent Payment Advisory Board, IPAB is what we call it around here. What you ought to call it is the Voucher Rationing Panel.. , what they are are 15 bureaucrats, specifically excluding someone who practices medicine from participating in the decisions of what Medicare is going to cover and not cover if and when the government runs out of money. But we know the government's going to run out of money. We know Medicare's going to exceed its budget. It does every year.But if that were all that was bad in the bill, we might be able to just repeal that and move on. But it's not. We saw earlier there were provisions on small businesses called the 1099 provision, making small businesses do tens of billions of dollars worth of paperwork so that the government can collect a few billion dollars more in taxes, meanwhile, strangling small businesses. This Congress was smart enough to repeal that aspect.Just last week we repealed another aspect of the bill. It was called, strangely enough, the CLASS Act. Now, what this act did is, this was long-term care insurance under the Medicare provisions that starts collecting the premiums now, but doesn't provide services until the future, meanwhile, spending those premiums on other expenses in the government.Sound familiar? Sound like what's happening to your Social Security dollars and your Medicare employment taxes now, your payroll taxes? That's exactly what this was. Set up what even Democrats called, in the Senate, a Ponzi scheme that would make Bernie Madoff proud. So we repealed it.But last week, in perhaps one of the worst parts of the bill, which really had nothing to do with money, was when the Secretary of Health held that religious institutions had to provide care under their insurance policies that was not consistent with their religious beliefs. That is, sterilization, , and abortion. Full coverage, no deductible, zero deductible, putting it in the same category as breast cancer, prostate cancer, lung cancer, colon cancer, the other measures that were meant to be covered by that clause in ObamaCare, the preventive care clause.Now, . , that assumes, if you want to prevent illness, that pregnancy is a disease. Or pregnancy is an illness. What a long way we have come from when society felt that pregnancy was something to be celebrated, it was an extension of life, it was an extension of society, the next generation.The Secretary of, and I put it in quotes, ``Health'' in this administration, has decided that pregnancy is a disease or illness that needs to be prevented. That's not a good recipe for the future of our society or this country. And worst of all, it's a stark violation of the First Amendment of the United States that the government shall not compel anyone to go against their religious principles.They'll tell you there's an exemption, but there isn't. Yes, if you're a church, you're the church itself, you are. But God forbid that church goes into the community and runs a center for social justice, a center for adoption, a hospital. That religious institution running that other entity would be forced to provide coverage for something that is antithetical to the religious beliefs of that religion.Ladies and gentlemen, that is just wrong. It's bad policy, and it violates the First Amendment of the United States.. , if I might inquire, how much more time do I have remaining?. President, for some time now Americans have suspected that this administration has lost touch with the American . John Meacham, the former editor of Newsweek and a fan of the President, explained this detachment by explaining that the President does not ``particularly like .'' That might be an overstatement, but he is on to something. This administration seems to take its cues from the far left, whether or not they represent the aspirations and hopes of ordinary Americans.Nowhere is this disconnection from the American  on better display than with the hamfisted decision by Secretary Kathleen Sebelius and the Department of Health and Human Services to require that religious persons and institutions violate their most cherished beliefs or face the consequences.Late last year, HHS ordered all employers, including religious institutions, to cover in their employer insurance plans such things as sterilization, , and abortion-inducing drugs and devices. With very limited exceptions, religious hospitals, universities, and charitable institutions would face the choice of dropping coverage for their employees or violating their consciences.The Nation's Catholic bishops and many other religious institutions pleaded with this administration to grant broader waivers to avoid jeopardizing these institutions' constitutional rights to freely exercise religion. But the administration, rather than side with millions of religious Americans who just want to be left alone to practice their own faith, decided to throw in with the most radical of proabortion advocates. They decided to subordinate our central constitutional commitment to religious liberty to a radical agenda that is overtly hostile to all of these  of faith.The response has been overwhelming. At church this weekend millions of American Catholics were read a letter from their bishops. The message was simple, and it was powerful. This action is unjust and one with which they will not comply. They are right, and they shouldn't. The first amendment doubly protects religious liberty. It prohibits the government establishment of religion and explicitly protects the free exercise of religion, the first individual right listed in the Bill of Rights. That is how important religious liberty is to America.In our system of government, such fundamental rights and principles are supposed to trump statutes, regulations, and political agendas. The Constitution and the liberties that it protects are supreme not the fleeting politically driven motivations of any particular administration. Yet the Obama administration, as it has always does, has turned these priorities upside down. In this administration, politics trumps absolutely everything else, even the Constitution and religious liberty. Instead of conforming their political agenda to the Constitution, they distort the Constitution and even liberty itself to conform to their political agenda.The politicians driving this mandate underestimated the American  who have in succession rejected the sorry efforts by the administration to defend its actions. The administration first hid behind the opinion of a purportedly objective medical group that birth control should be included in health insurance plans, but the American  knew who was ultimately responsible for this rule--not some board of so-called experts but the President and his officers. They tried to minimize this mandate's impact by arguing that many States already have similar requirements. But this was incredibly misleading since nearly all of those States have much broader religious protections. In fact, only three States have religious exemptions as narrow and limited as this new Federal mandate.They tried to assuage the concerns of religious citizens by saying that the rule does not cover churches and houses of worship, but Americans will not accept only the remnant of our constitutional rights that the President chooses to recognize. Were we supposed to thank the Obama administration for letting us retain a few scraps of religious liberty? There are many religious institutions and organizations that do not fit into the Obama administration's artificial, narrow categories but that just as fully exercise their faith and religious missions. Religious liberty belongs to the Catholic hospital or the University of Notre Dame no less than it belongs to the Catholic Church.Then, when this simmering controversy broke wide open a few weeks ago, Secretary Sebelius thought she could make it all go away by agreeing not to impose this mandate for another year. Like her boss the President she just plain doesn't get it. Religious liberty is not a bargaining chip or a deal sweetener like premium floor mats or an upgraded appliance. Did she think Americans would not mind losing this cherished liberty if they were allowed to spend just a little extra time with it?The Obama administration's attitude toward religious liberty has become ``enjoy it while it lasts.'' And to the administration's surprise, the American  have been less than enthusiastic about this cavalier attitude toward constitutional rights.The President of the United States takes an oath to support and defend the Constitution, to stand for the fundamental liberty of all Americans. He and the officials responsible for this mandate have fallen far short of this oath.The fight for religious liberty began before America was born, and it must be fought continually. We can all see that now. It is a part of our constitutional heritage. Our Founding Fathers pledged their lives, fortunes, and sacred honor to defend the principle that all  are created equal and endowed by God with certain unalienable rights. The right for persons and institutions to be free to practice their faith without undue interference by the government is among our most cherished rights and liberties.There was a day when liberals and conservatives, Democrats and Republicans--everyone--joined to defend liberty. I should know. I was the principal Republican co-sponsor of the Religious Freedom Restoration Act which brought together unprecedented grassroots and congressional coalitions to defend this first freedom. They knew that rights such as religious liberty rise and fall together, that religious liberty cannot be packaged, sliced, diced, and doled out in little pieces to please certain interest groups. We need that same unity today because religious liberty is just as important and, sadly, just as threatened as it was in the past.In addition to violating the first amendment right to freely exercise our religion, this mandate also appears to violate that landmark law, the Religious Freedom Restoration Act. It burdens the free exercise of religion and is clearly not, as the law requires, a narrow means of achieving a compelling purpose.Last month the Supreme Court unanimously held that the right of religious organizations to decide who may further their religious mission trumps nondiscrimination statutes. The Obama administration argued that religious organizations are nothing special, that they should have no more freedom from Federal control than, say, a labor union or a social club. In other words, religious liberty is simply no big deal to the Obama administration.Writing for the entire Supreme Court, Chief Justice Roberts called this a remarkable view of religious liberty, one that is ``hard to square with the text of the First Amendment itself, which gives special solicitude to the rights of religious organizations.''Soon the Supreme Court will have the opportunity to rule on the constitutionality of ObamaCare. What the preventive services mandate confirms beyond all doubt is that the constitutional defects in ObamaCare only begin with the insurance mandate that will be before the Supreme Court. There are some other issues there as well, and I hope the Court examines every one of them and overturns this law.The very DNA of ObamaCare is unconstitutional. At its core, the law and its expansion of government are a threat to personal liberty. The decision to implement this law in a way that forces religious institutions to violate their deepest principles is a vivid demonstration of what happens to personal liberty when the power of the state expands. As the state controls more and more of our lives to further a political agenda, our freedom is put in greater and greater jeopardy.After 3 years of this administration, the American  seem to be saying enough is enough. Those responsible for this decision to force religious institutions to subsidize health coverage for abortifacient drugs need to be brought to account. The President needs to answer for this. Secretary Sebelius needs to answer for this. The Attorney General needs to answer for this. How could he let this happen?Let me say, however, that getting answers is not enough. Congress needs to assert its authority as the representative of the American , stand for the first amendment, and restore religious liberty by overturning this health care law.For those who are on the front lines fighting this mandate: I applaud your courage, and please understand that you are not alone; you are Democrats, Independents, Republicans, and others. The Obama administration may not care about religious liberty, but the Constitution does, and I, along with many of my colleagues, will fight alongside you until we prevail over this unjust law. This new HHS mandate cannot be allowed to stand, and I am confident that if the will of the American  prevails, it will not stand.I belong to a faith that has been persecuted and mischaracterized for many decades. We are the only church in the history of America that had a Governor issue an extermination order against its members. That is how bad it got in this greatest of all countries where religious liberty is without question our most valued right. We understand what it is like to be persecuted. I don't care whether one is liberal, conservative, independent, or what, and I don't care what religious beliefs folks out there all have. There is no excuse for this type of heavy-handed, ham-handed, overgovernmentalization of our religious freedom. We simply cannot allow this to stand.Does President Obama have the guts to stand up for religious liberty? If he doesn't, he should not be President of this United States. If he does, I will be the first to compliment him for it. It comes right down to the Constitution itself and, in many respects, I believe the most important provision in the Constitution. Religious liberty is something that our early leaders risked their lives to obtain because they were persecuted because of their religious beliefs.I call on the President of the United States to change this, to acknowledge that this is a mistake, and to understand that we are united--Democrats, Republicans, Independents, and others--in the protection of this great liberty.. President, I suggest the absence of a quorum.. President, last Friday was the second anniversary of the new health care law. This week we have been reminding the American public to take a hard look at what is in it, and, more importantly, why I don't want to observe this anniversary again.Examples such as the Medicare reimbursement formula that allows Massachusetts to set Statewide hospital reimbursement rates for providers equal to the cushy wages paid to providers at a 15-bed hospital on the island of Nantucket that caters to the East coast elite.This robs 19 other States of money for their reimbursements because it all comes from the same pot. In short, there aren't enough clams at this bake to go around, certainly not to Kansas after Massachusetts is finished.Or the Health and Human Services' rule that required qualified health plans to offer  benefits. As my colleagues know, religious institutions that hold moral objections to specific services expressed widespread concern with the rule.In response, Senator Blunt offered, and I cosponsored, S. 1467, the Respect for Rights of Conscience Act. This act would allow a health plan to decline coverage of specific items and services that are contrary to the religious beliefs of the sponsor, issuer, or other entity offering the plan without penalty and remain in compliance with the requirements under the new Health Care Law.And what about the regulations that have caused insurance plans in 39 States to stop offering child-only plans, and parents in at least 17 States that are no longer able to purchase ANY child-only plans? Keep in mind, there are no private insurance alternatives for these families until the new health care law is fully implemented in 2014.There is also the prohibition on what can be reimbursed from a Health Savings Account or HSA. I joined Congresswoman Lynn Jenkins in introducing a bipartisan bill to repeal this provision to restore the choice and flexibility  had in managing their health care expenses by buying over-the-counter medications.Even more alarming is the act of granting waivers to more than 1,700 labor unions and others from participating in the new law. At issue are the mandates involving annual coverage forcing many employers not to offer coverage at all. So instead labor unions and others are getting waivers. Where is your waiver? Why can't all Kansans get a waiver??At the time,  Pelosi famously said we had to pass the bill to find out what is in it. Well, we have read it, and my concerns which I voiced throughout the very limited debate remain the same: the health care reform law is bad for Americans.The health care reform law. Regulates every Americans' health coverage, by penalizing anyone without a Government-approved health plan.The law penalizes American businesses that do not provide Government-approved health plans.It forces more Americans into Medicaid--a broken, bankrupt Government entitlement program.It puts the Federal Government in charge of your health insurance.By one count, the law creates over 159 new boards, offices, and panels in the Federal Government to make decisions about your health care.The law gives the Obama administration Secretary of Health and Human Services more than 1,700 new or expanded powers--to exert control over the lives and personal health care decisions of Americans; creates an unworkable new long-term insurance program that will go broke, leading to skyrocketing premiums or a taxpayer bailout; levies more than $550 billion dollars of taxes, fees, and penalties related to health care on American families and employers; and spends tens of billions of taxpayer dollars just to implement the massive new law.The law micromanages how patients can spend their own tax-free health care dollars.As of March 12, 2012, the total number of pages of regulations the administration has released related to the health spending law is 12,307, which is an increase of over 4,700 pages in the last year.In addition to the formal regulations, the administration is also issuing hundreds of pages of subregulatory guidance in the form of ``bulletins'' to avoid having to describe how much these regulations will cost.A significant portion of the regulations issued thus far have been interim final rules, which give the regulations the force of law prior to any public comment.I have listed a number of these regulations in a letter I sent to President Obama. I did get a reply from Secretary Sebelius a few months later, but it never did address the concerns I had tried to bring to their attention. She did, however, note that they listen to all stakeholders before implementing new rules. Unfortunately, that isn't what I've been hearing.While I travel around Kansas I try to talk to as many of our Kansas patients, providers and advocates as possible. Without fail, regulations and their effect on our health care system, how they affect health care costs, and the result they have on job loss come up.I held a stakeholder roundtable in Topeka to get feedback from patients and providers on their thoughts related to health care reform. I was not surprised to hear that every representative at that meeting had a concern with regulations, but the sheer volume was truly extraordinary.I was surprised to hear every representative at this stakeholder meeting discuss the impacts of health care reform and, more importantly, their concerns with regulations, some of which are buried in the volumes of regulations being put out every day and many that defy comprehension.When discussing the health care reform and regulations with my constituents and those representing the patient and provider community, the No. 1 concern that I heard was a fear of what else is coming down the road? What will the impact of future regulations be?The current burden of regulations pales in comparison to the uncertainty of future regulations. Future regulations from implementing the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, PPACA, will have an even greater impact on jobs and the economy. This is like the second health care reform earthquake. If you are a health care provider, hang on.Additionally, the combination of the regulations being issued to implement the PPACA statute has resulted in an increase in premiums for individuals and businesses, which, as you know, results in increased costs and tough choices.Providers feel that the significant costs associated with implementing the health reform law are either inaccurate or not taken into consideration. In fact, I often hear that patients and providers feel that they do not have a voice in the regulatory process.More specifically, a number of regulations are currently being issued through a shortened process. This shortened process allows limited or no input from those most affected by the regulations, prior to their implementation, and result in an even greater confusion. And from confusion we get higher costs.It is my understanding that 20 of the 51 rules issued to implement the health reform law have been issued as interim final rules and therefore with limited input. While there may have been instances in which a shortened process was necessary or appropriate, this lengthy list is absurd. In my letter to the President, I listed some 34 regulations that my Kansas constituents noted had the most significant impact. I encouraged the administration to limit the use of this regulatory process and take every available opportunity to get feedback from those who would be most affected by these regulations and allow for ample time to review and consider that feedback prior to implementing future regulatory priorities.Time and time again, I have heard no more regulations will be issued in the shortened process, and yet the interim rules continued to be issued. I have heard that stakeholder comments will be thoroughly reviewed and considered, but the actions by the administration don't seem to prove this. I have heard that economic impacts will be carefully considered, and yet the studies indicate otherwise.If history truly does repeat itself, I don't have much hope of that.. President, in recent weeks, we have seen the Obama administration reverse quite a few of its positions on very important issues, so I am going to go through several of those positions that have been reversed to remind  of the number and the consequences of those reversals, and also to remind  that when Presidents make promises, they do not always keep them.This has continued to be a recurring pattern, where the administration's deeds have not lived up to its words. Here is the record:The administration reversed its position on employer funding for employee , sterilization, and abortion-inducing drugs under the new health care law. Those of us who opposed the President's law when it was passed in 2009 and 2010 warned Catholic groups that, if it passed--meaning if the health care reform bill passed--religious institutions would be required to pay for these services.For some religious institutions, payment or providing these services would violate their constitutional right to freely exercise their religion under the first amendment. Sure enough, when the Department of Health and Human Services issued a regulation implementing the President's health care law, religious-affiliated entities, such as colleges, hospitals, and charitable organizations, were required to pay for these services. If these institutions did not pay, then they would face a $2,000 fine per employee, per year under the health care reform bill.Many Catholic entities objected. They correctly saw the rule as a threat to their freedom of conscience, protected by the first amendment. But many non-Catholics also were angered. They knew and feared that if the health care reform bill proposed by President Obama allowed the government to run roughshod over some 's freedom to practice their religion, it could do the same for practices of other religions beyond Catholicism. The regulation was a direct assault on freedom of conscience, and the American  knew it.It was no longer a contraceptive issue. The issue was freedom of religion. So last week the President ordered a change. No longer would the employer, such as religiously affiliated institutions, have to pay for coverage of services to which it conscientiously objected. Instead, the cost supposedly would be paid by insurance companies. Of course, somebody will ultimately have to pay the cost.After the President's reversal, employers will still pay insurance companies to provide for coverage and, more directly hitting the institutions, those that are self-insured will still have to pay not indirectly but very directly.Since the substance has not changed, the change appears to be designed to undercut opposition rather than to respond to legitimate objections to the earlier policy. Then we get back to basics: There is no such thing as a free lunch. We have to wonder how carefully the original policy was vetted by the administration.As a result, President Obama has been accused of waging war on religion. This particular policy violated the rights of religious entities and individuals, and the administration considers the matter somehow to simply be closed by the press announcement 1 week ago. But the Catholic bishops and many other religious organizations violently disagree. So Congress may have to overturn the policy if we want to abide by the strict words of the Constitution and freedom of religion, because if we don't, I expect the President's new policy will be challenged in the courts on the first amendment, free exercise clause, and the Religious Freedom Restoration Act.Moving on to another change of policy. Another recent policy shift occurred on a different first amendment issue beyond freedom of religion. Turning to the right of free speech.The Supreme Court ruled that the first amendment required that corporations and labor unions be allowed to make independent expenditures on behalf of candidates. President Obama severely criticized that ruling of a couple years ago, and right after it was made he even objected in his State of the Union Address right in front of the same Supreme Court Justices. Even the New York Times has said his criticism at that time of the Citizens United decision was probably wrong. Nonetheless, President Obama has repeatedly said he thinks the ruling harms democracy.But now, President Obama has changed his mind. He is encouraging, under Citizens United, donors to give to a super PAC that supports his candidacy. He now says Democrats need to match the Republicans to tap these sources of campaign funds.Here, though, he has made more than a 180-degree turn. He has gone beyond simply asking donors to give to super PACs that independently support his candidacy. Under the new policy, even White House staffers and Cabinet Secretaries can attend super PAC events.At these events, corporations, unions, and wealthy individuals can pay large sums for access to key administration policymakers. These administration officials do not directly ask for money, of course, but they help to raise unlimited funds from corporations and unions. Of course, this is allowed under Citizens United, but it is the very same decision the President criticized and now he is going against his own criticism.I do not know what principled position would allow a President to condemn a decision and then have his administration officials help corporations and unions capitalize on that decision for his benefit.I suspect, of course, that the President would say he will still oppose that decision, even if he indirectly obtains the benefits of the Citizens United case. But I think it is very important that we understand letting a President have it both ways is not principled.Let us consider another issue--the issue of lobbyists. In December 2011, through a fundraising e-mail, President Obama wrote:We don't take a dime for D.C. lobbyists or special-interest PACs--never have and never will.But one of his campaign bundlers, former Representative Ron Klein, has raised between $200,000 and $500,000 for the Obama campaign. Do you know what. . Klein is a registered Federal lobbyist.On the 2008 campaign trail, President Obama pledged there would be no revolving door between lobbying and serving in his administration. He issued an Executive order to bar former lobbyists from joining his administration to work at agencies they recently lobbied. Yet he issued a waiver allowing William Lynn, who had been a top lobbyist for a major defense contractor, to manage day-to-day operations at the Pentagon. More recently, he made Cecilia Munoz the head of his Domestic Policy Council. . Munoz was a registered lobbyist through 2008. The administration has admitted to granting waivers for only a few lobbyists. Yet it has declined to identify all lobbyists to whom it granted waivers.The promise of transparency doesn't apply in this case, evidently. So the President's actual policy is, ``No lobbyists in my administration, unless I absolutely want them.''Then there is the President's public commitment to transparency in government. I just mentioned one violation of that transparency. Now we go on to talk about his transparency problem.President Obama issued an Executive order to department heads. The order reads:My administration is committed to creating an unprecedented level of openness in government. We will work together to ensure the public trust and establish a system of transparency . . . ''But that is not policy the administration followed in responding to Freedom of Information Act requests. The Obama Justice Department advised agencies to tell Freedom of Information Act requesters seeking certain national security- or law enforcement-related documents that those documents did not exist.He said to tell them these documents do not exist, even if the agency knew the documents did exist.The process seems to have been to make a grand pronouncement and score political points. Then, when they think no one is paying attention, the policy shifts. I do not know who was responsible for vetting this blatantly dishonest policy, but the predictable firestorm ensued and, thank God, the administration has now backed down.This is not the only instance of the administration failing to practice what it preached concerning FOIA requests. A different Obama Executive order gave these directions:The government should not keep information confidential merely because public officials might be embarrassed by disclosure, because errors and failures might be revealed, or because of speculative or abstract fears. Nondisclosure should never be based on an effort to protect the personal interests of government officials at the expense of those they are supposed to serve.That is not how the Department of Homeland Security handled FOIA requests. Homeland Security FOIA requests were sent to the Secretary's office for political appointees to review. Career FOIA staff were not allowed to respond to the requests without the approval of political appointees.The House Governmental Reform and Oversight Committee has demonstrated these political officials misused FOIA exemptions to prevent the release of embarrassing records. This was in direct violation of the President's promise.Moving on. As a candidate, President Obama stated that:[i]t is a clear abuse of power to use [signing] statements as a license to evade law that the President does not like or as an end-run around provisions designed to foster accountability. I will not use signing statements to nullify However, in his first year in office, President Obama signed an omnibus appropriations bill that contained a standard provision that Federal funds could not be used to pay the salary of Federal employees who attempted or threatened to prevent another Federal employee from communicating with Congress.This provision has always provided important protection for whistleblowers against waste, fraud, and abuse in government, and somehow these whistleblowers, under the President's signing statement, wouldn't dare talk to Senator Grassley or other Senators about waste, fraud, and abuse. So how are we supposed to find out about it? Whistleblowers are very helpful.It happens that President Obama's signing statement contended that this provision did not detract from his authority to direct department heads to supervise employee communication with Congress. Worse, it said this authority would be used when employee communication would reveal ``confidential information.''This signing statement, if carried out, would undermine congressional instructions as enacted into law, and it would harm the ability of Congress to conduct its constitutional duty to conduct oversight of the executive branch.Then just this week, the President flipped again on yet another subject. In 2009, he said he was ``pledging to cut the deficit we inherited in half by the end of my first term in office.''At the time he was sworn in, the deficit was $1.3 trillion. The fiscal year 2013 budget the President has just proposed would create a $900 billion deficit--much more than half of the 2009 level that he promised to cut in half. This is true even after he proposes to raise taxes, since the amount of the new government spending he seeks is so enormous.This is a long list of flip-flops, of failure to keep commitments, and hypocrisy. There are others as well.I give the President the benefit of the doubt in his altered views of the PATRIOT Act, Guantanamo, and other national security issues. He holds an office in which he sees daily the unrelenting national security threats the country faces. But for the other issues I have raised, the consistency of the Obama administration is its inconsistency.I yield the floor.. President, very shortly we will be voting on the amendment filed by my colleague from Missouri, Senator Blunt--the Respect for Rights of Conscience Act. I am a cosponsor of this amendment, and I think we all ought to be cosponsors of it. Many of my colleagues have supported it as well, and for good reason. It provides statutory protection for one of our deepest constitutional commitments--the right to free exercise of religion. It is an effort to fulfill our oath to protect and defend the Constitution. It is an effort to put the enduring constitutional rights of the American  first, over any fleeting and controversial political interests.In my view, those who support this amendment have been unjustly criticized over the past few days, and they have been unjustly criticized on a political basis, not really on an intellectual basis. Unable to win this debate through a fair criticism of the amendment, it has been mischaracterized and misrepresented.Opponents are desperate to distract the public from one simple fact: This amendment is necessary because of ObamaCare, the health care law that manifests new threats to personal liberty and individual rights with each passing week. It is an indictment of the President's signature domestic achievement and all of those who support it.ObamaCare took over and regulated the Nation's health care sector--one-sixth of the American economy. It stripped individuals and employers of their right to go without coverage and the right to determine what type of coverage they would have.ObamaCare is what has brought us here today. The health care law requires that women's preventive services, including sterilization and access to abortion-inducing drugs, be included in health care coverage beginning in 2012. This is a questionable policy in and of itself. Like the rest of ObamaCare, it assumes the government is able to provide all good things to the American  through a simple mandate with no consequences for cost or access.The problems with this mandate were compounded, however, when the administration, deferring to its feminist allies, determined that the mandate would apply to religious citizens and institutions. To their credit, these institutions, which are compelled by this regulation to violate their moral beliefs, announced that they would not comply with this unjust law. They refused to roll over and allow the government to force them to provide sterilizations and abortion-inducing drugs to their employees. They stood as a witness for constitutional liberty, the free exercise of religion, and against an administration that put basic partisan politics above our beloved Constitution.The President's self-proclaimed compromise does absolutely nothing to minimize the constitutional problems with this mandate. The Department of Health and Human Services never--never--consulted with the Department of Justice about the constitutionality of this mandate, and it shows. That is why we are here today: to undo just some of the damage to our liberty and our Constitution wrought by ObamaCare.All of the misleading arguments regarding this amendment run square to one simple fact: ObamaCare only became law in 2010. There was no Federal mandate for these services prior to 2010, and the regulations have not yet gone into effect. In other words, nobody is taking anything away from anybody. But to hear the other side talk, one would think the cosponsors of this amendment and the groups who support it are committed to a monstrous deprivation of women's rights. With due respect, that is absolute hogwash.I appreciate that the advocates of ObamaCare might be embarrassed by this episode, but we are not going to let them get away with a gross misrepresentation of what we are trying to do here.Prior to 2010 and the partisan passage of ObamaCare, access to contraceptives was abundant and nobody advocated that the Federal Government involve itself in those personal, moral decisions. After 2010, access to contraceptives remained abundant, with nobody advocating for restrictions on their access.Here is what changed in the meantime. In 2010, ObamaCare mandated that health coverage include sterilizations, abortion-inducing drugs, and contraceptive coverage. As a result, religious institutions and persons will now be compelled by the State to violate their conscience--compelled by the Federal Government to violate their conscience. It isn't just the Catholic Church; it is many churches that feel just the same way as the Catholic Church does. It is a moral and religious issue that should not be interfered with by the Federal Government.Prior to 2010 and the passage of ObamaCare, the first amendment was intact. Today, the first amendment is in tatters. The Democrats who passed this law know this to be true, so they have to distract and confuse. They claim Senator Blunt's amendment is overbroad. They claim religious institutions and individuals would deny critical health services, such as blood transfusions and psychiatric care. The Senate Democratic steering committee claims 20.4 million women who are now receiving coverage for preventive services would lose that coverage under this amendment. Absolutely none of this is accurate.Again, all this amendment does is restore the pre-ObamaCare status quo. All it does is restore the religious liberties and constitutional freedoms that existed prior to this government takeover of our Nation's health care system. It restores the conscience protections that existed for all Americans for the past 220 years.If this amendment passes, here are a few things that do not change: State mandates for health coverage will remain in place. Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, preventing discrimination on the basis of race, color, religion, sex, or national origin in employment benefits remains in place. The Pregnancy Discrimination Act, requiring health plans to cover pregnancy, childbirth, and related conditions remains in place. The Americans With Disabilities Act prohibiting s discriminatory withholding of health care and other benefits for  with HIV or other disabilities remains in place. And the Mental Health Parity Act of 2008 requiring equitable coverage of mental illness remains in place.Prior to ObamaCare, very few  excluded any of the services that Democrats are pointing at in their efforts to scare the American , and few will do so should the Blunt amendment pass. But our Constitution demands that those individuals and institutions that object to providing these services on religious and moral grounds be protected. That is what the Constitution demands.Even though the individuals and institutions protected by the Blunt amendment are a minority, it is that minority that our first amendment exists to protect. The rule agreed to by President Obama would force religious organizations to violate their moral convictions. This cannot be allowed to stand.I call on my colleagues on the other side to wake up and realize what they are doing. There is only so much politics that should be played around here, and this is an issue we should not be playing politics with. It involves religious freedom and liberty.There was a time when a regulation of this sort would not have been countenanced by this body, let alone some of the arguments that have been made on the other side--trying to obscure and to make a political issue out of this.I have had the good fortune of representing the  of Utah for many years. It has been an honor for me. In that time, I have seen many good  on both sides of the aisle serve well in the Senate. One thing we could always be sure of was that when it came to our first amendment freedoms--in particular, the freedom to practice one's religion without interference from the State--Republicans and Democrats would join together in the defense of religious rights and liberty. Why are we not joining together? Yet under this administration, our Bill of Rights has been subordinated to President Obama's desire to micromanage the Nation's health care system.It was not always this way. When the Senate considered President Clinton's health care law--itself an attempt at a sweeping takover of the Nation's health care system--giants such as Daniel Patrick Moynihan, a Democrat and colleague who served as the chairman of the Finance Committee, stood up for broad conscience protections such as the one we are considering today in the Blunt amendment.I worked closely with many of my Democratic colleagues in passing the Religious Freedom Restoration Act. I was the author of that bill. We passed it. It overwhelmingly passed. I was there when President Clinton signed it into law. A lot of religious leaders were there and a lot of liberals and conservatives were there who were very happy to pass that law. But, apparently, those days of bipartisanship are laid to rest, and they are long past.Today the administration ignores the clear dictates of the first amendment and the Religious Freedom Restoration Act.ObamaCare is unconstitutional to its core. It threatens the liberties announced and protected by our Declaration of Independence. This mandate is just one more example of how the law restricts personal liberty. It will force religious persons and institutions to violate their beliefs or pay a fine.Defending this disaster at a townhall meeting recently, one Democratic Member of the House of Representatives told her constituents that they were ``not looking to the Constitution'' when they supported this mandate. No kidding. Our Founding Fathers fought a revolution to prevent this type of tyranny; and that is what this is. This is tyranny. It is the political bullying of a religious group with--in the views of the President's allies--unpopular religious beliefs. So for political reasons the religious groups who differ with this are being pushed around. The media, polite society, and the administration are picking on religious freedom and on religious .Democrats like to claim they stand for the little guy. Not in this case. In this case, the little guy is being pushed around by the State. I, for one, am not going to stand for it. This is discrimination masquerading as compassion, and I am going to fight it. My oath of office, an oath to protect the Constitution, compels me to do this.I am putting the administration on notice: I am not done with you, and my colleagues are not done with you. Whatever happens with this vote today, you are going to be held to account for your actions. We are going to get to the bottom of how this happened and, ultimately, I am confident that justice will prevail.Ultimately, I am confident justice will prevail.I commend my colleague from Missouri and all of the Members who have spoken out for this amendment. It is reasonable. It is just. I urge all of my colleagues to vote for it.The American  understand this amendment is necessary because of ObamaCare, and they know who is responsible for this monstrosity. I expect they will look favorably on those who stand up for the first amendment today and attempt to correct their folly by restoring the conscience protections that preexisted ObamaCare. The reaction to those who stand by this historic deprivation of first amendment rights? Only time is going to tell.Let me close by saying there are very few things that get me worked up as much as I am about this. I feel very deeply about a lot of things, but the first amendment, to me, means everything. I have heard the President say, well, we will just require the insurance companies to provide this. Give me a break. A lot of Catholic institutions are self-insured, and that is true of other churches as well.Religious beliefs are important. The first amendment is important. The free exercise of religion is important. That is what is involved here.My gosh, to hear these arguments that this is all about --that is not what it is about. It is about the right of  with religious beliefs to practice their religion, unmolested by government. I want to commend the distinguished Senator from Missouri. It takes guts to stand up on these issues when they are so distorted by some on the other side. I would be ashamed to make some of the arguments that were made on this issue. The Catholic Church, which is the largest congregation in our country, is not going to abide by this mandate. And I am 100 percent with them.When we start going down this road, let me tell you, beware, because that is when tyranny begins. The religious commitments of our Nation have made it the greatest Nation in the world. I have to tell you, those of you who vote against this amendment are playing with fire. Those of you who vote against this amendment are ignoring the Constitution. Those of you who vote against this amendment are wrong.. President, I yield the floor.. , it's wonderful to hear so many of not just colleagues but friends here on the floor discussing what is so important to this Nation--responsibility. And if you want to talk fiscal responsibility, it would certainly seem that the first place to start is with the repeal of ObamaCare. If you want to talk about freedom individually, once again, the best place to start is with repeal of ObamaCare.There are so many ways the Federal Government has been encroaching into individual liberties and individual freedoms. It begins to get quite scary that we are encroaching on the very things that our original Founders were willing to fight and die for to ensure that we had the freedoms to do, that we would have the freedoms to avoid doing damage to our conscience.It's so ironic that so many came to this Nation in its earliest days, and then through its history, seeking relief from persecution as Christians. So many groups came here believing that this could be a place, a promised land of sorts, where freedom could be experienced greater than anywhere else in the world. And that dream has been realized.For far too long in our Nation's history, it was not extended to all men and women. Race and gender were problems. There were problems for some because there was racial and gender bias. But no one in those days ever anticipated we would get to the point in America where we are today, where  of faith who believe with all their heart that certain practices are just wrong in God's eyes would be forced by their government to commit those acts of wrong.We know that the President of Notre Dame University, back in 2009, endured a great deal of heat when he brought a man who had fought so hard in Illinois to allow late-term abortions, a man who had fought to prevent  of conscience from being allowed to be counseled on exactly what they would be doing. There were all kinds of efforts in Illinois to deal with the issue of abortion. And he's now President. So there were some that believed that bringing that individual to a Catholic university like Notre Dame and giving an honorary degree and bestowing this honor upon him was not a good idea. Yet the President took a great deal of chance.Sarah Palin points this out in an op-ed, little piece that she wrote Tuesday, when she said:Consider Catholicism's most prominent academic leader, the Reverend John Jenkins, president of Notre Dame. Jenkins took a serious risk in sponsoring Obama's 2009 honorary degree and commencement address--which promised a ``sensible'' approach to the conscience clause. Jenkins now complains, ``This is not the kind of `sensible' approach the President had in mind when he spoke here.''As Sarah Palin notes, ``Obama has made Jenkins--and other progressive Catholic allies--look easily duped,'' because this administration appears to want to wage war on Catholic Christian belief.It's amazing that someone would take those kinds of positions that the administration currently is, basically a war on religious freedom for Christians.There is an editorial posted by Mike Brownfield today, entitled, ``Morning Bell: ObamaCare's Latest Victim is Religious Freedom.'' It says:It has not even been 2 years since ObamaCare was enacted, and already the President's health care law has taken another victim--the religious freedoms Americans hold dear, as reflected by the First Amendment. The Obama administration recently reaffirmed a rule under ObamaCare that requires many religious employers to provide health care coverage for all FDA-approved contraceptive methods, sterilization procedures, and related education and counseling. On the grounds that certain FDA-approved contraceptive methods can sometimes ``cause the demise of embryos both after and before uterine implantation,'' many groups also believe that the rule forces them to cover abortion.As the article points out, it's not just Catholics affected by the rule. Leaders from other faith traditions have expressed their concern. This is deeply troubling.Another article here from The Washington Post, entitled, ``Obama Plays His Catholic Allies for Fools,'' by Michael Gerson, published January 30. He says:In politics, the timing is often the message. On January 20--3 days before the annual March for Life--the Obama administration announced its final decision that Catholic universities, hospitals, and charities will be compelled to pay for health insurance that covers sterilization, contraceptives, and abortifacients.It was bad enough that ObamaCare was going to take away individual freedoms regarding health care. We can take care of those who cannot take care of themselves. But we should not do, as a government, what has been done for far too long--provide incentives for  not to reach their potential, provide incentives for , in effect, to take the life of an unborn, to make it easier to do that.As so many have pointed out, if a government can order any individual, all individuals in the country, to purchase a particular product, including health care insurance, there really isn't anything the Federal Government cannot order them to do or to purchase.And we're seeing that play out now, not merely in the area of just health insurance, but going deeper than that, more problematic, even theological, that the Federal Government can order you not to follow your religious beliefs.So it's really quite shocking how far we've come. Now, those of us that study the teachings of Jesus know that He told Christians you will suffer for My sake. I didn't deserve to be born in America. I go to places like Afghanistan and Iraq and places where there's so much heartache, places around the world where you see --in Africa, the places that I've seen so much heartache, so much suffering. We didn't deserve to be born here, but by the grace of God we were. And though we were told by Jesus you will suffer for My sake, for whatever reason we were allowed to grow up free, free from suffering on account of Christian beliefs.This bubble in time and space that was allowed for generation after generation to be able to follow religious beliefs as Christians without persecution, that time has changed. Now it would seem that as  yell ``haters'' at Christians, throw things at Christians, fuss on the nightly news how Christians are haters and want everybody to go to hell if they don't believe just like them--what a terrible misinterpretation of Christian faith and beliefs.An article from The Wall Street Journal talking about the  rule, talking about the discussions about it among the political candidates.People need to understand the Christian faith is under assault, and this administration has stepped up the ante in that assault. And if , whether they're Christians, Jews, Muslims, whatever faith--Hindu, Buddhists, Atheists--once you see a Federal Government telling Christians you cannot practice what you believe with your whole heart spiritually, you could be next. This ought to stir up not merely Christians. It ought to stir up  of all kinds of faith. Because, again, a Federal Government that can tell you to buy one product can tell you to buy any others if it has that much power. A Federal Government that tells Christians they cannot actually practice their religious beliefs can tell other religions the same thing.We've just about come 360. This gift we've been given, we've been blessed with more freedoms in this country than any country in the history of the world. It doesn't take all that much study of world history to see that. It doesn't take all that much traveling around the world to see that. As I've traveled the world, going back to my days as an exchange student in 1973 to the Soviet Union, you develop a love for  all over the world. It's ironic when  call you a xenophobe and have no idea how many  you love with all your heart--Africa, Asia, Europe, around the world, different places.And as one West African told me when I was visiting there, You have to understand, we were so excited when you elected a black President, but now we've seen America growing weak. And you must let the  in Washington know that unless America stays strong, we will suffer. You're our protectors. Without you staying strong, we don't have hope of having the freedoms we have right now. America's strength and America's standing for freedom and liberty don't just affect the  in America.I jotted some notes inspired by a pastor's comments decades ago. It says: Start thinking about what we have seen in this country. First they said you can't have prayer in school, but most  didn't speak out because they would just pray somewhere else. Then they said you couldn't publicly post the Ten Commandments because  might be tempted to read them; and if they read them, they might be tempted to follow them and live moral lives. But most  didn't speak out because they knew where to find the Ten Commandments if they decided they wanted to have that kind of moral code.They said you couldn't use a cross for a headstone, even for soldiers who died in the Christian faith in Jesus Christ, believing what Jesus said that ``greater love hath no one than this, that a man lay down his life for his friends.'' But not enough  have spoken out, because the soldiers are gone and they can't respond, so maybe it doesn't really matter.I had a judge tell students, recent history, they could not have the freedom of speech to say what was in their hearts if it included horrible verboten words like prayer, invocation, benediction, but worst of all, God, prayer, amen, bow our heads, join in prayer. And most  didn't speak out because that was somewhere else, a judge somewhere else, not ours. Some judges said you couldn't say God in the pledge in a public place. It seems more judges have said that in more recent history. Fortunately, it was struck down, but they're still saying it. And not enough  are speaking out because it's some other judge. Maybe an appellate court will strike it down. I hope so.Now we're being told by some if you want to hire someone, unless you're hiring a minister, you can't hire someone with the same religious spiritual faith that you have. Not enough  speaking out because they think surely that won't apply to me, at least not for a while. We're being told if you know in your heart that killing the most innocent among us, the infant unborn, if you believe that's killing, it's murder, it's wrong, well, we're the Federal Government and you have to forget your religious beliefs. We're going to tell you what you can or can't believe and tell you what you can or can't do. You have to go ahead and pay, in tax money or in health insurance money, for someone else to kill an unborn child.And we have hospitals, doctors, nurses, health care providers being told, you may know in your Christian heart that it's wrong personally to participate in the taking of an innocent life, like an infant unborn, but if you want to stay in the health care business you're probably going to have do it anyway. We're the Federal Government, and we'll dictate not only what you may believe or not believe, but what you may put into practice and not put into practice.And there are some in our government telling military chaplains, even priests, preachers, you may believe in your spirit, in your heart, in your soul that marriage is between a man and a woman, that Nature's God intended the perfect biological fit to produce a combination of a sperm and an egg. And some want to tell them you've got to set aside your religious beliefs and do what we, the Federal Government tell you, and marry whoever we tell you to marry.You believe Romans 1? Forget it. Tear it out of your Bible because we're the Federal Government. We have a right to tell you what you can or can't believe.Some say it's okay to force Catholics to violate their Christian consciences and their religious beliefs because our Federal Government has the power to tell them what to do. Not enough  are crying out. I guess they figure, well, I'm not really Catholic, or maybe I'm Catholic but surely they wouldn't try to tell me what to do in violation of my Christian spiritual beliefs.But if the government can order, with the full power of Federal law enforcement, anyone to violate their Christian beliefs, we have come full circle. And the prayers of generations, the work of churches throughout our history--first, to even have a revolution based on freedom, based on the liberty that they knew God gave us, where over a third of the signers of the Declaration of Independence weren't just Christians, they were ordained Christian ministers. But they believed in freedom so strongly that they were willing to fight and die for the spiritual freedom of all  in this country.And a Constitution was put together and followed by a Bill of Rights, and it said what it meant, but it took a long time for it to be applied across racial bounds. It should have been clear. It's not a living, breathing document, but it says what it means, and it means that all  should have those rights under the Bill of Rights, that we were all created equal in God's eyes. The Founders believed that.The churches were the heart and soul of the abolitionist movement to do away with that horrible evil called slavery. People like John Quincy Adams, 16, 17 years down the hall, Statuary Hall, after he was defeated for a second term as President, beseeching, preaching against the evils of slavery, inspired by what he knew from William Wilberforce as a Christian in the United Kingdom doing the same thing before him.Abraham Lincoln, inspired by that overlapping time with John Quincy Adams, down the hall, because of his Christian beliefs and faith. If anybody doubts his belief, what motivated that man, go read the second inaugural address on the inside of the north wall of the Lincoln Memorial, as he tried to make sense, as a Christian, spiritually, about all the injustice and wrongs and death and suffering in America.The movement for women's equality involved women of great faith. The civil rights movement, the greatest saint of the movement was a man who was an ordained Christian minister, who knew in his heart what Jesus had done for him, and he wanted all  to have liberty equally together, and be judged by the content of their character, not the color of their skin.And now, it appears, war is being waged like never before on  of biblical Christian beliefs. You wonder what some of the Founders had to say. Samuel Adams was one of the strongest Christians alive during the Revolution. He was inspirational.``How strangely will the tools of a tyrant pervert the plain meaning of words!'' Samuel Adams, that devout, strong Christian said, his wonderful quote inspired by his faith.And he said:If you love wealth better than liberty, the tranquility of servitude than the animating contest of freedom, go from us in peace. We seek not your counsel nor your arms. Crouch down and lick the hands that feed you. May your chains sit lightly upon you, and may posterity forget that you were our countrymen.These are  of faith who believed in liberty that started this place. And to have courts saying you can't say the word ``God'' in invocation, benediction--we start every day with a prayer in this Chamber, and have for centuries.But we go back and finish with this. The speech of Benjamin Franklin that we have from his own handwriting. So what he said, 1787, late June, 1787, when nearly 5 weeks had gone by and they'd accomplished virtually nothing, and he pointed out that they had accomplished virtually nothing, that they had more ``nos'' than ``ayes'' on virtually every vote.And he went on to say:In this situation of this Assembly, groping as it were in the dark to find political truth, and scarce able to distinguish it when presented to us, how has it happened, Sir, that we have not hitherto once thought of humbly applying to the Father of Lights to illuminate our understandings? In the beginning of the contest with Great Britain, when we were sensible of danger, we had daily prayer in this room.That was Independence Hall. This great, brilliant man, who most of us were taught was a Deist, went on to say:Our prayers, Sir, were heard, and they were graciously answered.That's not a Deist.All of us who were engaged in the struggle must have observed frequent instances of a superintending providence in our favor. I have lived, Sir, a long time, and the longer I live, the more convincing proofs I see of this truth--that God governs in the affairs of men.Now, the judges in this country, there are those who would say, he shouldn't be able to give that speech. He just mentioned the ``G'' word. Yet, it was what inspired , these kind of speeches.He said:And if a sparrow cannot fall to the ground without His notice, is it possible an empire could rise without His aid? We have been assured, Sir, in the sacred writings, that ``except the Lord build the House, they labour in vain that build it.'' I also firmly believe, without His concurring aid, we shall succeed in our political building no better than the Builders of Babel: We shall be confounded by our local partial interests and we ourselves shall become a byword down through the ages.He went on to say he believed they should start every day with prayer.He was followed by Randolph from Virginia, who basically pointed out that here we are at the end of June, we are about to celebrate our anniversary, let's all go to church together, hear a sermon together, which they did, the reformed Calvinist Lutheran Church. They all went to church and heard a sermon together. They came back in a new spirit, and gave us the Constitution, and gave us the Bill of Rights after that.How in the world can a Federal Government that came from those roots begin to declare war on Christians, and Catholic Christians now? Beware, beware. The Federal Government that can declare war on Catholic Christian faith may be after your faith next.With that, I yield back the balance of my time.